Weighing just 800g and only 8mm thin, the 15.6-inch ASUS ZenScreen MB16AC is the world’s lightest and slimmest Full HD portable monitor, and this is how we rate it. It’s the world’s first portable monitor with a hybrid-signal solution, which means that it only needs a single USB connector cable to be fully compatible with almost any laptop. At 6.5mm, the bezel is 60% thinner compared to previous models, bringing a more expansive view without compromising the styling. Included with your purchase is an ultra-thin 1mm foldable smart case, which not only provides protection but also can be turned into a horizontal or vertical stand to match with the auto rotation feature. It’s the first portable monitor we’ve ever got our hands on, and so here is a look at the features of the ASUS ZenScreen MB16AC, as well as some details about our experience with the device.  The ZenScreen MB16AC features a Full HD panel that delivers stunning 1920 x 1080 resolution visuals with outstanding colour reproduction. We also found that the innovative Eye Care technology from ASUS makes a huge difference to the strain from extended viewing periods. The blue light filter feature is TÜV Rheinland-certified with Flicker-free and Low Blue Light technologies that protect your eyes from harmful blue light and makes the viewing experience much more comfortable. The four blue-light filter settings are accessed through the onscreen display menu via the hotkey. Initially, we found that adjusting menu setting was a little complex, but it works well once you get the hang of it.  It uses IPS technology to give you more flexibility when extending your screen, so you still get superb colour and contrast – even from extreme viewing positions. The ZenScreen MB16AC can automatically sense its orientation and switch the monitor between landscape and portrait modes. To use it with your Windows OS, however, you will have to download the DisplaySoftware software to enable Auto rotation. This also seems to be the case with some of the other display settings, such as the screen brightness.  The monitor requires a single USB connection for both power and video transmission from your host device.  It features an innovative hybrid-signal solution with native support for USB Type-C (USB-C) connections, and uses an installed driver to support USB Type-A connectors for full compatibility. We found that the reversible, any-way-up USB-C design gave us a quick, hassle-free connection to various devices.  The ZenScreen MB16AC is ideal for use as a secondary monitor for dual-monitor presentations, and its versatility helps you get things done more efficiently when you’re on the go. It barely tips the scales at a lightweight 0.78kg, and with its ultra-slim 8mm profile it fits easily in any travel bag. At the office, we have become accustomed to dual-monitor setup at the office and tend to feel constrained by a single screen when we travel or work remotely. So we loved how easily it could fit into a laptop bag and how quick and simple it is to set up, while being slender, light, and yet sufficiently robust.  The foldable smart case protects the monitor from dust and scratches and can be folded into a stand to prop the monitor up in either portrait or landscape orientation. The monitor also has a smart pen hole in the bottom right-hand corner, where you can insert a pen to prop the screen up when not using the smart case. We found that both options worked well, and the case is quite versatile so you can fold it in a variety of different ways to get the height and angle the suits you best.  Overall, working with the Zenscreen was a great experience, especially when travelling. It had us at the first touch with the light weight, great display and sleek design, but most of all it receives our praise for how easy it is to use. The ASUS ZenScreen MB16AC’s specifications are detailed in the table below. For more information visit the ASUS website.  This article was published in partnership with ASUS.