The City of Tshwane’s free Wi-Fi project has come under scrutiny after the DA took over the municipality and looked into its finances – however, the service will not be cancelled. This is according to Cilliers Brink, ‎a Member of the Mayoral Committee in Tshwane, who provided MyBroadband with an inside look at the current state of the Wi-Fi project and the plans for the network. The first phase of the Tshwane Free Wi-Fi project was launched in 2013, and included hotspots at various academic institutions, the Mamelodi Community Centre, and Church Square. The project, initiated by the former ANC municipal government and funded by the municipality, grew to its current coverage of 1,050 hotspots over the last four years. Although it appeared to be a commendable project, serious questions emerged regarding its finances in recent months. The Auditor General recently declared R180 million spent on the Wi-Fi network as “unlawful and irregular”. The project was reportedly paid for by grant funding – under a section of the Municipal Finance Management Act – meant for non-profit organisations and charities. The high cost of the project has also raised eyebrows. At R320 million for the project to date, it suggests that Tshwane paid almost R305,000 per Wi-Fi site. The controversy around the network does not mean the City of Tshwane will stop the project, though. Brink told MyBroadband that while the Wi-Fi offering was “born in sin” under the ANC, it is “simply too far down the road to simply cancel the service and start anew”. Following the Auditor General’s finding, the new DA municipal government immediately ceased all payments to Project Isizwe – the company behind the network. At the same time, the city started to explore sustainable methods of funding. Brink said the R320 million spent on the Wi-Fi project included R75 million in value added services, which include: The city said this month it made an important breakthrough in putting its free Wi-Fi network on a lawful and sustainable footing. It said it is crucial that its new Wi-Fi budget be spent wisely, and that the ANC municipality’s previous mistakes will be avoided. The City of Tshwane’s original service level agreement with Project Isizwe included: Brink said there are several factors that affect wireless networking performance in the city. This includes physical obstructions, network range and distance between devices, wireless network interference, signal sharing, network usage and load, local environment characteristics, spectrum channel limitations, and signal reflection. “Less-known factors include transmitter power limitations, polarisation of signal, and speed loss due to wireless overheads,” said Brink. Project Isizwe tests the Tshwane Free Wi-Fi network regularly and conducts over 100 tests a month. MyBroadband was provided with the latest test results, which show an average download speed of 8.8Mbps and a peak speed of 49.6Mbps. The average upload speed, according to the Project Isizwe tests, is 8.7Mbps, and the average latency is 26ms. Brink said the continual uptake of users and their increasing demand for data means the network needs to operate at increasing capacity. “Just recently, we increased the Internet capacity and within a day that increase was fully utilised,” said Brink. To assess Project Isizwe’s speed test claims, MyBroadband performed real-world tests in multiple locations. For the tests, MyBroadband used the Tshwane Free Wi-Fi app’s zone map, and performed tests as close as possible to the location of the listed hotspots. Download speeds ranged between 0.05Mbps and 0.36Mbps, while upload speeds ranged between 0.02Mbps and 0.49Mbps. Peak speeds were achieved when the tests were performed a few metres away from the hotspot, with direct line-of-sight. The testing further showed that users have to be relatively close to the hotspot to make use of the service. Numerous tests failed, despite being conducted within 100m of the hotspot. MyBroadband asked Brink about the relatively poor performance of the network in the tests, and he said “the city remains concerned over the allegations of slow download speeds”. He said they are willing to accompany MyBroadband to the test sites mentioned below, and run the tests again to check for outside or environmental interference. Project Isizwe was contacted for comment about the performance of its network, but the company did not respond by the time of publication.