At Computex 2017, Dell revealed two new all-in-ones (AIO) and a new gaming desktop to round out its popular Inspiron PC product line. Available starting today on Dell.com and worldwide in the coming weeks, Dell’s new line-up includes the Inspiron 27 7000 All-in-One (AIO), the Inspiron 24 5000 All-in-One (AIO) and the new Inspiron Gaming Desktop — the first gaming desktop to join Dell’s expanding Inspiron Gaming line-up. Dell takes industry-leading innovation mainstream with new systems boasting firsts for the Inspiron desktop line including Dell’s iconic virtually borderless InfinityEdge display and “Ready for VR” configurations capable of delivering immersive experiences through high-end VR headsets like HTC Vive and Oculus Rift. With Dell’s immersive, virtually borderless InfinityEdge display technology – available for the first time on the Inspiron AIO line – Dell’s new Inspiron 27 7000 AIO and Inspiron 24 5000 AIO offer a beautiful edge-to-edge viewing experience for multimedia entertainment and streaming in a sleek, compact design perfect for the home office, study room, living room and more. Dell also brings its VR leadership to the Inspiron line for the first time making this disruptive technology more accessible across a range of budgets. Dell is the only OEM in the industry providing end-to-end VR solutions from VR content creation and playback to serving VR content via Dell cloud servers and infrastructure. With the new “Ready for VR” Inspiron Gaming Desktop and AIO, Dell is positioned to be a central player in driving broad adoption of this technology which will transform and enhance our lives. “Dell has experienced 17 consecutive quarters of PC growth by continuously innovating with our PC designs and experiences,” said Ray Wah, senior vice president and general manager, Dell Consumer and Small Business Product Group. “With more people than ever streaming movies, gaming and consuming VR content on PCs, Dell remains committed to providing the best visual and audio experiences and the new Inspiron All-in-Ones and Gaming Desktop bring that innovation mainstream.” Inspiron Gaming doubles down with first-ever gaming desktop Dell brings more than 20 years of PC gaming industry expertise to its new Inspiron gaming line to deliver high-performance and quality systems – built for gamers seeking a competitive advantage – at a budget friendly price. Committed to providing powerful gaming solutions for players of all types even up to the most demanding professional e-sports athletes, Dell introduces a new Inspiron Gaming desktop, starting at $599. Following the success of the Inspiron 15 Gaming laptop, a Computex d&i Gold winner and already a favourite among reviewers desiring top graphics performance under $1000 USD, the new Inspiron Gaming Desktop sports the latest AMD multicore Ryzen processors featuring SenseMI which dynamically optimises power consumption, task routing and clock speeds to deliver exceptional responsiveness and performance whether it’s gaming, Virtual Reality or streaming. These desktops are built with expansion in mind, with power supply options up to 850 watts¹ for supporting dual discrete graphics, Ready for VR graphics cards, up to 32GB DDR4 memory², advanced cooling options and Waves MaxxAudio Pro with Performance 7.1 Channel HD audio. They also offer a convenient SuperSpeed USB 3.1 Gen 1 Type-C port and up to six SuperSpeed USB 3.1 Gen 1 ports total, a wide selection of high-capacity hard drives with responsive SSD and dual-drive options plus up to five bays for future storage upgrades. The Inspiron Gaming Desktop is attractive on the outside as well, featuring a striking, dramatic design with advanced ventilation offering a view inside the system while improving airflow to performance components illuminated with Polar Blue LEDs. Available beginning today in China on Dell.com and at select retailers and worldwide in the coming weeks starting at $599.99. INSPIRON 27 7000 AIO (Computex d&i Award Winner): Sleek, premium AIO built from the ground up for VR Thoughtfully designed from the ground-up as a VR and entertainment system for the home, the Inspiron 27 7000 AIO brings beauty to every single inch of the screen. Its virtually borderless InfinityEdge, 27” display, with resolutions up to 4K UHD, and performance grade audio delivers a stimulating visual and audio computing experience. It offers the latest multi-core Ryzen AMD processors and AMD Polaris RX500 Series graphics, giving it the performance to power virtual reality, multimedia content and everything in between. It comes with a sleek, silver colour and is packed with future ready technology like Windows Hello One-Look login, Far-Field Speech Recognition with Cortana, USB Type-C 3.1 and Dual Drive options with SSD storage. Available beginning today in China on Dell.com and at select retailers and worldwide in the coming weeks starting at $999.99. INSPIRON 24 5000 AIO The AIO offering the best video streaming Because video streaming is one of the top activities on a PC3, Dell has engineered the best AIO for video streaming and multimedia experiences. The new Inspiron 24 5000 AIO comes with the new SmartByte technology by Rivet Networks – developed with, and exclusively for, Dell – that helps prevent buffering when streaming content. The software detects critical network streams and prioritises video ahead of less urgent network traffic, so videos and movies run without interruption. With a 24” InfinityEdge IPS FHD touch display, the latest 7th Gen AMD processors and AMD Polaris RX500 graphics, this new AIO delivers powerful performance and high-graphics fidelity. It features a beautiful white, sleek design and articulating stand making it the ideal PC for the living or study room. It is also equipped with Windows Hello One-Look login, Far-Field Speech Recognition with Cortana, USB Type-C 3.1 and Dual Drive options with SSD storage. Available beginning today in China on Dell.com and at select retailers and worldwide in the coming weeks starting at $699.99. Dell Earns Four Computex d&i Awards Dell is proud to announce the receipt of four Computex d&i award wins for 2017 – including one for its new Inspiron 27 7000 AIO and a gold award for the Inspiron 15 Gaming laptop. Selected out of more than 255 entries from eight countries for excellence in innovation, the Dell award winners include: Get immersed in the #DellExperience during Computex 2017 From May 31 to June 1, visit Dell’s showcase at Neo Studio to get hands-on with Dell’s gaming and “Ready for VR” PCs, beautiful displays and other innovative products. Open each day starting at 9 a.m. TIST, experience virtual reality, view product demos and take home a memory of the event from Dell’s digital photo booth. This article was published in partnership with Dell.