The World’s fastest growing eSport Professional Gaming Gear Brand COUGAR accessories and equipment is now available in South Africa. Cougar is a professional brand of gaming PC components that was created in 2007 by computer enthusiasts with a passion for gaming and the motivation to develop advanced gaming gear for everyone. Cougar is for enthusiast gamers who not only demand state-of-the-art PC chassis but also want to express their dynamic gaming life style with reliable quality products. They aim to provide these gamers with best-in-class innovative and cutting-edge gaming products that are designed in Germany, with German technology that is world-famous for highly stylish product concepts and strictest quality requirements. After joining one of the biggest events, Computex 2017 in Taiwan, Cougar will join the world’s biggest entertainment event E3 2017: the Electronic Entertainment Expo, which will take place at the Los Angeles Convention Center from June 13–15, 2017. Cougar has also joined the Dreamhack event held in Austin, where serious gamers had the opportunity to try out all the Cougar gear showcased. Here is some of the cool Cougar tech that is now available from the available South African Distributors: Cougar 700K Mechanical Gaming Keyboard  Design-awarded Cherry mechanical key switches with extra G-key, fully backlit, and an exposed brushed aluminium structure for increased durability. Comprehensively designed to meet MOBA and MMO gaming needs. N-Key Rollover in USB mode so you don’t miss a single key. Armor Advanced Gaming Chair and case  The swiveling gaming chair is a fully adjustable throne that will satisfy the most demanding gamers. With a steel frame and high quality components for extra durability, as well as loads of options to fine tune it to your needs, COUGAR Armor is ready for battle.  Cougar Panzer is designed following the original design elements of the Panzer Max utilizing a powerful design including two fully transparent tempered glass side covers, support for up to four radiators, eight fans, and three graphics cards with a max length of 425mm. Cougar 700M-B Aluminium Laser Gaming Mouse  This award-winning gaming mouse for professional gamers comes with a customizable aluminium frame and weight adjustment and allows you to choose different palm rests and weights to suit your gaming style. DEATHFIRE EX gaming gear combo and headset  The advanced 40mm Neodymium magnet drivers available produces high quality stereo sound. IMMERSA PRO’s 7.1 Virtual Surround audio allows you to become truly immersed in the heat of battle, hearing your enemies’ steps while they approach you to meet their defeat.  In the future Cougar will be working closely together with eSports teams and Tournaments to make 2018 a very exciting year for eSports. For more information visit the Cougar website. This article was published in partnership with Techtraders.