Enterprise challenges today is to anticipate the digital transformation in their industry and make the right decision to stay ahead of their competition and create more value for customers, employees, ecosystems and shareholders. Raphael Perez, Vice President for SAP Leonardo EMEA, opening plenary on the second day of the two-day Saphila Conference shed light on how these changes can be enabled while increasing flexibility and growing opportunities, through technology. “SAP is in the middle of these big changes, and the value customers is expecting from SAP is how IT is evolving and what IT will enable them to do. “Today we see a whole new IT world where every kid is using an iphone, and companies want to see their IT Systems progressing the same way to design the future that we all know it will be. “We will live in a connected world at home and we will work and use different companies where the relationships between companies and their customers will be faster and a lot more efficient,” says Perez. SAP Leonardo is a holistic digital innovation system that integrates today’s transformational technologies with SAP experience, deep process and industry knowledge, and advanced design thinking methodology. From the cloud platform to the apps themselves, SAP Leonardo is open, extendable and ready to be woven into every facet of the business. SAP Leonardo integrates all SAP advanced data solutions: Internet of Things, Machine Learning, Analytics, Big Data, SAP Cloud Platfroms. The SAP Leonardo portfolio empowers Live Business by connecting the emerging world of intelligent devices with people and processes to achieve tangible business outcomes. The solutions enable companies to not only realize the digital transformation of existing end-to-end business processes but also evolve new business models to run digitally and create new work environments. SAP Leonardo innovation portfolio SAP Leonardo combines adaptive applications, Big Data management, and connectivity in packaged solutions across lines of business and industry use cases, ranging from connected products, assets, and infrastructures to vehicle fleets, markets, and people: “The very important thing in IoT is that we will be able to bring more value creation for your ecosystem and your customers employees and support it,” adds Perez. “The challenge we have all together is to imagine where innovation can be, to seek that where existing IoT is and to show and operate for both new phases, and very few imagine the complexity and processes needed,” he concludes.