South Africa offers explorers a paradise of beautiful, vast landscapes, but it often takes a rugged vehicle to enjoy overland adventures. Spend your holidays discovering South and venturing into the unknown, remote wilderness areas to see sights that take your breath away from the comfort of your own vehicle. Buckle yourself up in the new Nissan Navara, and head off to one of these five destinations that offer some of the best trails in South Africa.  A mere 45 minutes out of Johannesburg, Bass Lake Adventures is an adventure resort offering camping and overnight facilities and a crystal clear a 10-hectare body of spring-fed water to swim in. For the 4×4 enthusiast, though, Bass Lake Adventures also offers half and full-day 4×4 training as well as access to a self-drive trail. The length of the self-drive trail is 14 km with several technical sections, and the trail will take around 3 hours to complete if done in full.  The Biedouw Route is an undemanding trail located in the Cedarberg mountain area, boasting spectacular scenery. It is an ideal trail for the whole family, with rock pools and waterfalls to picnic alongside, Bushman paintings to view and incredible views of Sneeukop and Krakadouw Peak to witness. The Biedouw trail is 30 km in length and takes about 5 to 6 hours to complete, and accommodation is available at Enjo Nature Farm, which offers self-catering cottages and camping facilities.  For a multi-day 4×4 and camping adventure, the Lebombo Eco Trail offers five days of travelling from where South Africa meets Zimbabwe to the joining of Mozambique. Called the “wilderness experience on wheels”, the Overland Trail follows the eastern boundary of the Kruger National Park along the Lebombo hills from the extreme South to the extreme North. Experienced, professional guides act as trail leaders and will interpret the various ecozones the trail crosses, at regular intervals. It is not strictly speaking a 4×4 challenge, as road conditions vary from reasonably good to a few places with steep inclines and muddy patches.  For a family weekend getaway where you can enjoy a scenic drive, Serendipity Eco Trails is the perfect destination. Set on a bushveld farm in Limpopo, two trails stretch over an unusual combination of valleys, gorges, Savannah and mountain streams, and rock pools with crystal clear water, indigenous forest, waterfalls, and panoramic views of the Waterberg await you. Serendipity offers a wide range of accommodation ranging from self-catering chalets to tree huts to camping.  Tugam Game Farm is situated on the slopes of the Magudu Hills in KZN, and the safari network consists of more than 75 km of off-road tracks with four distinct trails. These are all done at certain times of the day to enhance your chance of spotting game, and sightings of impala, giraffe, wildebeest, zebra and even rhino are common. While most of these are gentle dirt tracks, the Sundowner Trail has quite a steep ascent over rocks to get to the Lookout Point at the top of the mountain. Tugam Game Lodge offers fully equipped chalets with communal braai areas and a rustic safari camp for up to 16 people. Of course, an off-roading trip demands a vehicle that is up to the challenge and is prepared for any situation while still being enjoyable to drive.  For this reason, the all-new Nissan Navara merges the rugged strength of a bakkie with the comfort of a luxury SUV, to create a new kind of beast that’s the best of both worlds. With a ground-breaking 5-link coil rear suspension system, the Navara redefines ride comfort and handling both on- and off-road. A powerful twin-turbo diesel engine, pushing out 140kW and 450Nm of torque, coupled with the smoothness of an optional 7-speed automatic transmission, redefines the drivetrain for a more efficient and responsive drive. Even with a premium leather-clad cabin, the Navara loses none of its rugged credentials. Get behind the wheel, and feel what it means to be rugged, redefined. For more information, visit the Nissan website. This article was published in partnership with Nissan.