All it took for the WannaCry ransomware to infect thousands of computers around the world was someone without training and machines without patches. Since it was first opened by an unsuspecting user it has hit 150 countries, encrypted thousands of files and seen even more hands thrown up in the air in desperation. For those who didn’t pay the ransom, those files are long gone. Locked away by code and a key only the hackers can provide. For those who did, well, it’s likely it never happened for them either as the volume of publicity surrounding the attack probably meant the hackers wouldn’t risk it. The attack itself is one that has been long predicted. It has been on the cards for more than a while and shouldn’t have caught anyone unawares. And yet, there are still PCs without patches that opened up gaping holes in corporate systems and allowed the bad guys in. For many, this is also proof that the cloud is a terrible idea. Why would they trust their data to a nebulous cloud entity when the hard tack at home failed so spectacularly? “The answer is simple – the cloud is actually the best way to protect your data in the event of a ransomware attack,” says Henk Olivier, Managing Director, Ozone Information Technology Solutions. “It is far more resilient and robust than traditional data storage solutions as most cloud datacentres have different security levels in place specifically designed to block certain exploits and Denial of Service (DoS) attacks,” he adds. This high level of security starts in the physical hardware layers and is executed across the software and application level layers to ensure rich protection and control. Most datacentres also have backups of data which can be accessed in the event of a ransomware attack, and these backups are kept offsite at different locations. “For the larger organisation that finds it more complex to place all their data in the cloud, this backup functionality can be used to store critical files and systems that can be restored easily in the event of an attack,” adds Olivier. “By utilising a cloud-based datacentre solution, not only will files be backed up securely, but many cloud solutions to manage operating systems and software are designed to ensure that all machines are up to date and patched.” Reliable datacentres monitor global internet traffic, DoS attacks and virus breakouts to prevent and block internet traffic or IPs at the right moment. And most cloud service centres use custom self-developed operating systems and software which make them complex to attack from the outside. In short, cloud is a much needed tool to support system security and bypass ransomware demands. This article was published in partnership with Ozone.