Acer today announced the launch of the #TakeaSpinwithAcer campaign in collaboration with Incredible Connection. The campaign will run throughout June and invite customers to take a risk-free trial with Acer’s top tier products for up to 30 days. Sounds too good to be true. It’s not. If at any point the customer is unhappy with the purchase they can opt for a full refund within 30 days. Belinda Marais, Acer Africa Marketing Manager explains that the #TakeaSpinwithAcer campaign displays the complete confidence Acer has in their products. “We have done some research and found that people often don’t purchase a new notebook due to the drawn out process of transferring data from one device to another, as well as the fear of buying a product they may not be able to return if it doesn’t suit their lifestyle. Customer satisfaction is important to us and we want to give the customer more than just a device but an experience,” she adds. All Incredible Connection stores nationwide have introduced the Walk Out Working (WOW) offering. The Tech Expert station will help customers’ setup their new device for free in-store enabling them to walk out already working on their device. No hassle, no fuss, no risk. This exclusive offer applies to Acer’s core processor range which is any product with an Intel Core i3, Core i5 and Core i7 Intel Processor. Visit our Facebook page and see how music sensation, Idols presenter and all-round good-guy ProVerb show you how to take a risk free spin with Acer: Try-outs like these should also apply to various equipment or tools that you purchase for business or home purposes. Scams are everywhere, and it’s true that millions of people have been mis-sold a product. For this reason, it is necessary to add a layer of protection and test it out first before you make a final decision to see how it may affect and assist in achieving pre-set goals. The #TakeaSpinwithAcer deal is available from 25 May 2017, and by taking an Acer notebook for a “Spin”, you can try it out with no risk involved. For more information, visit the Incredible Connection website, or visit your nearest Incredible Connection outlet. This article was published in partnership with Acer.