Computex is an annual event centred around the PC hardware industry, with manufacturers showing off their systems and products. The event encompasses everything from professional PC builds to gaming hardware components, and usually includes new product announcements from big companies. We rounded up the best PC hardware launched and shown off at Computex this year, as shown below. Intel’s new Core i9 Extreme Edition processor boasts 18 physical cores and 36 threads, and is compatible with the new Intel X299 chipset.  The Aorus X5 MD is a lightweight gaming laptop which features an Intel Core i7-7820HK processor and an Nvidia GeForce GTX 1080 graphics card.  Dell’s new all-in-one 4K PC is powered by an AMD Ryzen 7 processor and a Radeon RX 580 graphics card.  The Asus ROG Strix GL702ZC includes an eight-core Ryzen 7 processor along with an IPS FreeSync display.  ASRock’s new H110 Pro BTC+ motherboard boasts 13 PCIe slots and is perfect for cryptocurrency miners.  The Asus ROG Swift PG35VQ features a 3,440 x 1,440 ultra-wide display with a refresh rate of 200Hz.  Using Nvidia’s new Max-Q technology, Asus has created the world’s thinnest laptop that stocks an Intel 7th-gen CPU and GeForce GTX 1080.  Corsair’s new K68 mechanical keyboard has an IP32 rating, making it resistant to dust and spills.  MSI’s Core Frozr XL CPU cooler sports multiple lighting zones and its logo is a dragon.  FSP’s liquid-cooled power supply is the first of its kind, and features modular power cables and a silent mode.  Zotac’s external graphics card chassis allows you to boost your laptop’s graphics performance via a Thunderbolt 3 cable.  Riotoro’s new PC case line-up features dual-compartment layouts and stylish designs.  MSI’s new Raider laptops sport an angular design, along with Nvidia GeForce GTX 1070 cards and 120Hz displays.  The new ZenBook Flip S boasts a 4K display backed by some impressive hardware.  The new Asus dual-band router features a stylish design with a hole in the middle. 