Visual language can be interpreted as a social act. It must have traditional elements of communication, as well as an expression of identity. Samsung Mobile’s new visual language communicates with users through a unique manner while maintaining familiar visual messaging cues. This is according to Craige Fleischer, Director Integrated Mobility at Samsung South Africa who says that new design doesn’t appear out of the blue. “It is born in the creative mix of new values perpetuated by changing trends and the thorough understanding of the legacy of design,” he says. “We aspired to develop a balanced visual language that combines existing ‘Refine’ styles of Samsung Mobile design and the all-new Galaxy S8’s ‘Progressive’ style. Extensive research in the fields of design, art and passion were conducted and various case studies were performed  to grow the seeds of inspiration for this project.” The design of the Galaxy S8 is based on providing an ideal balance between the physical and digital space. Samsung analysed the elegant and stylish shape of the Galaxy S8 and developed a new iconography system that was inspired by the rounded treatment of the Galaxy S8’s curves. With the proliferation of visual experiences, more and more user interfaces that contain these familiarities are becoming flat. However, the user interaction between a product and interface is not flat, but three-dimensional. The Galaxy S8’s crucial navigational keys such as the Home, Back and Recent keys are placed inside of the screen to offer new moments, but Samsung also had to secure familiar feelings from the user. “We first moulded the Home button in a block shape and imagined visual elements of a light shining from within and a line that is formed from a shadow. We discovered that the line formed on the side that produces light doesn’t connect well with the shadow on the surface. We eventually clipped a portion of the line to create a flat but three-dimensional GUI. This newly designed, unique GUI now serves as a bridge between hardware and software,” says Fleischer. Some designs do not require ‘brand’ names to have recognisable identities and some designs seem simple, but have clear functions. Samsung Mobile’s new visual language maintains a balance between universality and uniqueness without tilting to either side. This uniform, yet multi-faceted language will mark the beginning of a whole new world of expanded experiences for users. This article was published in partnership with Samsung.