Genesys’ new brand aims to reflect the dynamics and adaptiveness of the human brain. In commerce, Customer Engagement is the product of an interaction between an organization and a customer over the duration of their relationship. These relationships can last for a week, a month or for many years depending on Customer Satisfaction. Whether big or small, every interaction impacts your customers’ experience and can either make it or break it and lead to a lifelong reputation that you can do little about. What many companies don’t realise is that the Customer Experience is not restricted to physical interactions with a purchase, but can include awareness, discovery, cultivation, advocacy, availability, response-time and the quality of service and security of data ensured with up-to-date technology. The customers’ experience is an integral part of Customer Relationship Management (CRM), since a customer who has a positive experience with a business is more likely to become a repeat and loyal customer. In fact, a study by Oracle found that 74% of senior executives believe that customer experience impacts the willingness of a customer to be a loyal advocate. The statistics show that if you want your customers to stay loyal, you must invest in their experience. ODEK recently experienced a unique customer experience which proves that human intervention with technical assistance makes for the perfect match, read more here. Fascinated by the way people think — switching seamlessly from channel to channel or bot to human, collecting data from any and every source. This includes adapting to additional information in an instant and anticipating every turn, and effortlessly stringing together big and little moments to create an experience like the human brain would.Meet Kate – Kate is a customer service-specific AI ecosystem that enables all manner of amazing tools. Practically designing an experience that involves Artificial Intelligence Bots will never be an easy thing to do. However, with Kate this seems to be taken care of through a series of easy to use pre-developed templates which you can overlay your customer journey on to. Kate is purely focused on delivering magnificent customer experiences, and brings her own micro apps and natural language understanding. Kate brings together the capabilities of Blended AI, such as using IBM Watson for Big Data, to deliver even more power by bridging automation with the human touch. “We aim to define the future by observing, anticipating, and adapting. We dream big, imagine the impossible and then build it,” says Genesys. “With all the excitement that we brought back home to SA, Kate stood out as one of the best Customer Engagement tools in the market today for one reason only – she can seamlessly blend AI and human agent functions that ensure customers less effort and more choice of channel and experience,” To find out more about The Customer Engagement tools visit the ODEK website.  This article was published in partnership with Odek.