Emid is proud to announce that their Financial Solution now has a name. The rebranding of its Software as a Service (SaaS) banking and lending platform as C4 reflects both the evolution of the company as well as its vision for the future. Since its formation in 2002, Emid has become a recognised leader in the retail banking and lending technology industry. Their solutions have continued to evolve as the world becomes more digital and connected. Emid has developed the C4 platform, over the past two decades, to compete with other large competitors in the African banking and lending space. Building from that solid foundation using “best of breed” standards for architecture, C4 provides clients with a customisable, future-proof technology platform that offers ease of accessibility, rapid deployment, tremendous flexibility and scalability, limiting the need for extensive upgrades and maintenance, and reducing the total cost of ownership, thanks to the SaaS model. Emid’s Cloud solution or SaaS model offers its clients a function rich and resilient IT platform at the lowest possible total cost of ownership. Emid’s specialist technical resources monitor, manage, and support the deployed IT systems in banking grade data centres, with a 24×7 operations centre monitoring all systems, processes, and data lines. This allows their clients to focus on its core business while all IT systems are being taken care of by highly skilled resources. The new logo is a stylised cloud and is made up of four C’s, representing the key features of the C4 solution; a Cloud-hosted, Core banking, Omni-Channel, Card, and lending platform. The colours and graphics used extend the modern, clean look. While the brand, tagline, and logo have changed in accordance with what the company is today, Emid’s value proposition remains the same – to provide a stable, secure, customisable, and cost effective solution to their expanding client base. “Throughout the years, Emid has evolved considerably to not only meet the needs of our customers, but also to conform to the technological progress and convenience of the ever-changing digital environment. Rebranding our financial services was necessary to reflect these advancements and to pull in alongside our vision for the future.” says Addie Buissinne, Emid’s Financial Services Director. This article was published in partnership with Emid.