If you do a lot of browsing on your smartphone and want to remain as secure as possible, setting up a VPN is essential. A VPN (Virtual Private Network) can be used to protect your data and circumvent region-locked services. This is accomplished by routing all your web traffic through a private network, resulting in an IP address assigned by the VPN provider being exposed to the Internet – keeping your location and data anonymous. Data sent through a VPN is encrypted and typically immune to inspection from outside sources, such as the government or your Internet service provider, although certain VPN providers may keep logs of your data. If you are already subscribed to a VPN service, connecting to its network on your smartphone is simple. If not, you can choose whether to download a dedicated VPN app or use your device’s native VPN support to connect to a VPN service.  Setting up a VPN connection on Android smartphones is simple and only requires the relevant network information from your VPN provider. You can connect to a VPN service by following the steps below. If you prefer not to set up a VPN using the Android menu, you can download a dedicated VPN app from the Play Store. The best of these services offer a small amount of free data usage for test purposes, and require monthly payments for unlimited usage and multiple simultaneous connections. Popular Android VPN apps include VyperVPN and ExpressVPN, which offer 1GB of free data, and a one-week trial period respectively. If you intend to use a VPN service regularly, purchasing a monthly subscription is the best route to follow.  iOS features native support for a number of VPN security protocols, including L2TP, IPSec, and IKEv2. To connect to a VPN using the operating system’s connection tools, users must: If you prefer to manage your VPN connection from within an application, there are a number of reliable VPN apps available for iPhone. NordVPN is a popular VPN app compatible with iPhone and iPad which uses the IKEv2 security protocol and 256-bit AES encryption to keep your data secure. TunnelBear is also available for iOS and offers users 500MB a month of free data, with unlimited usage for premium subscribers. While paid VPN apps are superior in terms of speed and reliability, free services like OperaVPN can provide a decent solution without subscription costs.