According to a recent study by the furniture retailer, Steelcase, and research company, Ipsos, 84% of employees feel their work environment is not conducive to a productive work day. It seems that while office design evolves constantly to give employers better work spaces, businesses still don’t choose the right environment for their employees. So how does office design influence productivity and how can you improve it? People spend a large amount of their time at the office. Those who work in a contact centre, for example, spend long hours talking to customers, often outside of the normal nine-to-five working day. Work spaces should be comfortable and conducive to long periods of concentration. Open plan offices are the most popular form of work space at the moment, but the study found that the lack of private space opens up the office to more noise, and increases feelings of stress and anxiety. Ensure your office provides both private as well as public areas. With portable glass partitions, for example, people can close themselves in when they need to concentrate intensely, and open the space up when the need for teamwork arises. Aesthetics too, can make a world of difference to staff morale. Numerous studies show that everything from natural light, wall art and scenic views, to indoor plants and calming wall colours can increase feelings of wellbeing. According to scientific researcher, Chanuki Seresinhe, a view of and exposure to natural elements and long distance views is beneficial. It improves mental wellbeing, and reduces stress, the chances of headaches and the degree of fatigue. These types of aesthetics allow employees the chance to experience a relaxing atmosphere while taking a break from their computer or a stressful task at hand. So, if you’re looking to create a positive atmosphere for your contact centre employees, think carefully about your office design. You can also investigate business process outsourcing, where the office design and setup will be organised for you. This article was published in partnership with Merchants.