Teams at SEACOM offices across Africa celebrated the company’s eighth anniversary on 23 July by assisting communities and organisations that are in need of aid. Getting out of the office to spend time uplifting people in need of support has become an annual “Foundation Day” tradition at SEACOM. The team in South Africa hosted a day of fun and games for Kingsway Primary, a non-profit school that supports the children of the Zandspruit informal settlement in Roodepoort. The SEACOM team also donated a new desktop computer for the admin office and SEACOM branded soccer kit for the grade 7 team at the school. SEACOM also helped to extend and refurbish the school’s playground. In Mozambique, SEACOM spent the day at Escola Primária Completa de Bunhiça in Maputo, along with the school directors, teachers and a representative from local government. Providing three computers, a printer, and installing a Local Area Network (LAN). The school serves 3,400 learners in grades 1 to 7 and operates under difficult conditions because of budgetary constraints. SEACOM Tanzania visited the Muhimbili Orthopaedic Institute, which supports children with spina bifida and hydrocephalus problems. The team is providing funds for medication, social needs, food, Shunts (a medical device that relieves pressure on the brain caused by fluid accumulation) and other medical support to this worthy and dedicated non-profit organisation. SEACOM Kenya’s Mombasa office spent the day renovating the amphitheatre at the Swahili Cultural Centre in partnership with local artists. The Swahili Cultural Centre trains young people in traditional Swahili crafts. Over the years, with support from SEACOM and other organisations, the centre has become a hub for sharing the rich heritage of Mombasa. Says SEACOM CEO, Byron Clatterbuck: “We traditionally celebrate Foundation Day by participating in social responsibility and charity projects because we want to contribute towards making Africa a more prosperous and connected continent. It’s our way to thank the community for being part of our journey and to give something back to them.”  This article was published in partnership with SEACOM.