OKI South Africa has added the Colorpainter, Teriostar and A3 colour smart ES94x6 MFP Series printers to its portfolio – designed to deliver unmatched productivity and quality for your business.  The Colorpainter E-64s and M-64s are large format inkjet, highly durable graphics printers that are well suited for both indoor and outdoor applications. These Colorpainter printers offer the sign and graphics market unrivalled image quality printouts, including banners, backlit, fleet and vehicle graphics as well as wallpaper, pop displays, floor and exhibition graphics, and more. They are built to produce high quality creative printing with Colorpainter technology that provide premium performance, high levels of precision and ease-of-use while fully supporting entry-level, environmentally-friendly printing. The Colorpainter printers also feature Dynamic Dot Printing (DDP) technology together with Smart Pass 4 (SP4) technology, delivering consistently rich, bold, glossy colours with fine details throughout. The E-64s low cost of adoption and ability to handle a wide range of media makes the ColorPainter the ideal choice for every user of large-format printers seeking an agile solution.  The new wide format Teriostar LP-1040 multifunction printer is designed to boost productivity in busy design, engineering and reprographics offices where deadlines are tight and time is money. The LP-1040MF prints at super speeds; up to 7 A1 size prints per minute and up to 9 A1 size prints per minute, the fastest in their class. Scan speeds of 240mm per second and parallel processing of tasks also help accelerate workflow and features the industry’s only user-replaceable process cartridges which means projects won’t get derailed by downtime. New features makes this printer simple and intuitive to use. Exceptional print quality is assured with a new Print Data Converter which fixes typical problems such as speckles, slants or the kind of errors sometimes seen with scan data or file converter data. New security features include identification with smart card for print, copy and scan.  The ES94x6 MFP Series of copier-based A3 colour smart multifunction printers (MFPs) are the latest addition to the OKI portfolio. These stylish, high-powered MFPs with comprehensive paper input flexibility and full high capacity finishing capabilities are ideal for workgroups and departments producing reports, white papers and booklets as part of their day-to-day workflow. OKI’s new ES94x6 MFP comprises two models the ES9466 MFP (35ppm) and the ES9476 MFP (50ppm), stand out with super sleek black high gloss panels. Both are especially suited to high volume work with consumables designed to last longer to help reduce total cost of ownership. Despite their robust, heavy duty nature they have a smaller footprint than comparable MFPs and are super light-weight. Multiple ES94x6 MFPs can securely share information such as user data, role data and the address book with others on the network. They also feature a multi-station print function option enabling ‘pull printing’ without the need of a server. The option of an embedded OCR also allows businesses to capture documents electronically so they can be managed digitally, and an embedded card reader makes the devices ideal for a managed print services approach. For more information, visit the OKI South Africa website. About OKI South Africa Printacom Technologies is the sole authorised distributor of OKI printers and printer consumables in South Africa and sub-Saharan Africa including the Southern African Development Countries (SADC) region. OKI Printing Solutions is a global business-to-business brand dedicated to creating professional printed communications products, applications and services which increase the efficiency of today’s businesses. From printers to faxes and multi-functional products through applications and services, OKI Printing Solutions has brought to market a range of incredibly fast and high performance machines that regularly win awards and beat the competition. Today OKI Printing Solutions is a major player in the printer market and is totally dedicated to creating relevant, high performance products, applications and services to meet the individual in-house printing needs of both today’s and tomorrow’s businesses. OKI Printing Solutions offers a portfolio of products that are specifically designed in response to the needs of the business customer. OKI Printing Solutions categorises its product ranges into five distinct segments: Serial Impact Dot Matrix (SIDM), Colour Non-Impact Printers (NIP), Mono NIP and Fax, and Multifunction Products (MFPs). This article was published in partnership with Printacom.