Gearbest is offering customers awesome discounts of up to $50 on their Vernee Smartphone brand sale with free shipping to South Africa. Vernee has been shaking the market since 2016 and has managed to establish itself as a reliable smartphone manufacturer in a very short time. These are the great Vernee deals available from Gearbest.com right now. Vernee Mars Pro 4G Phablet  – $179.99  Recently, Vernee released a new flagship model, the Mars Pro. The slim body paired with a near-borderless design allows the Mars Pro to have a 1mm narrow bezel. This combined with the matte black body makes this phone one of the best looking 6GB RAM devices on the planet. With this deal, you receive 22% off the retail price. Vernee Thor Plus 4G Phablet – $129.99  As with all the Vernee smartphones, the Thor Plus is characterised, not only by the excellent style, great functionality, and assembly quality, but also by an excellent autonomy. The eye-catching ergonomic body of the novelty is made of metal and features incredibly compact dimensions for a battery at 6200mAh. The design is supplemented with a fingerprint sensor, rounded corners and faces, curved glass of an excellent 5.5-inches screen. This deal gives you 18% off the retail price. The OUKITEL K10000 Pro 4G Phablet also has a large battery, dual SIMs and comes with a nice price too. Specifications of the Mars Pro and the Thor Plus are detailed in the table below: Below you can find specifications of the smartphones mentioned above: The offers are valid until 22 August while stocks last.Other Vernee smartphones and phablets discounted include the Thor E as well as the Apollo Flagship. Gearbest is an online electronics seller offering the very best gadgets, an unbeatable shopping experience, prompt shipping, and exceptional customer service. ­­ Gearbest has a partner based in South Africa that is assisting with exposure, guidance on importing for South African clients, and sharing of information to assist first time buyers from GearBest. He can be found on the MyBroadband forum as GearBestZA. Gearbest also sells Xiaomi, Huawei, ZTE, DJI, and Anet products, with a range of smartphones, tablets, TV boxes, remote control toys, and action cameras all available at the lowest prices. For more information, and to place your order, visit the Gearbest.com website.