South Africa is in tough economic times, and with the current political uncertainty, business and consumer confidence is at a low point. This places financial strain on the business owner and individual alike. Business budgets are under pressure and there is a need to undertake cost-cutting measures to remain sustainable and open for business. This applies to all businesses, especially the small and medium enterprises (SMEs) as they often adopt a survivalist mentality during an economic recession. A saving tactic for businesses is to look for suppliers that offer a more affordable solution for services that are required for the everyday running of the business. Services such as internet and telephone should not cost a business an arm and a leg, but are required for daily business. With WIRUlink, you can save costs and still meet your data and voice needs. WIRUlink offers an advanced, secure, enterprise class network that allows customers to make use of affordable services such as internet, telephones, Hosted PBX, VPN and hosting. The proof is in the pudding and WIRUlink has a proven track record that it saves businesses up to 50% of their telephone account with lower line rental and call charges. Their connectivity is reliable, with business fibre and carrier-grade wireless options, WIRUlink ensures less downtime and great redundancy. For individuals and businesses alike, WIRUlink offers fast, affordable and reliable telecommunication solutions that will allow them to cut back on certain expenses without having to compromise on long-term prosperity or quality. The individual is also feeling the financial pressures, and looking for ways to cut down on monthly expenses. Luxuries, such as satellite TV subscriptions, are the first thing to consider when cutting costs. In the past, cutting your satellite subscription would mean you’re left with state-owned-local broadcasting channels, or that you have to download your series and blockbusters illegally. Thankfully, with the launch of internet-based video or TV streaming services on-demand subscription this is no longer the case. By switching to a TV streaming service via your network, you can watch many more movies and series and even cut the cost of satellite subscriptions that increase annually. WIRUlink’s network and package options caters for TV streaming. WIRUlink understands what you need, both as a business owner, CIO and as the individual looking for the best option for your connectivity. For more information, visit the WIRUlink website. This article was published in partnership with WIRUlink.