The South African telecommunications industry is known to operate on a contract basis, ensuring customers remain with them for a set period of time. Unfortunately, for businesses that are tied into long term contracts with services providers that offer poor service levels and do not deliver value, this can be the most frustrating relationship and monthly cost to any company. Euphoria Telecom assists business customers to reduce the costs and resources while waiting for the long-term contract period to terminate. “We understand the importance of a good, reliable business communication solution and endeavor to provide just that to all our customers. For a business to be trapped in a contract for unsuited communications is the equivalent of daylight robbery to our company ethos. To aid these businesses, Euphoria does its best to find some middle ground – without weakening a customer in this scenario (financially),” says Rafal Janik “Our company is built to serve the needs of our customers, for fair value and not to exploit them. Our philosophy is to help, not cripple. By doing so, we do believe that our culture is slowly paving the way for other B2B service providers to operate with a similar philosophy, curbing exploitation and freeing the market place from companies who do not respect and understand their customer’s changing needs.” For a business to make the right decisions on technology, they need freedom and flexibility from service providers, not long-term contracts and iron clauses. This is why Euphoria has a strict “no long term contract” policy. Euphoria works on a ‘pay for what you need, when you need it’ philosophy. An easy 30-day cancellation notice gives that customer the freedom to explore other products and services. The policy complements trust between Euphoria and its customers. With over 2000 business customers in just 6 years – without long-term contracts – Euphoria continues to offer an innovative, cost-effective and reliable communication solution to more customers each year. Often businesses who have discovered Euphoria’s solution a little too late are willing to pay out the contract and penalty costs on a long-term contract (with a different service provider) in order to move over to the Euphoria service. This is not financially feasible or possible for other businesses and their only choice is to wait out the contract period, tolerating unsuitable products and services. However, poor business communication products or services is a deathly thing for the modern business. For those businesses wanting to move to Euphoria but are tied into contracts with other service providers, subject to the remaining duration of the contract period, Euphoria is able to offer these businesses a limited “respite period”, providing core services for up to half the remaining contract period. This option is limited to a period of 6 months. In a case where a business has 24 months left on its existing long-term contract, the option is still limited to 6 months. Reinforcing our business ethos, customers who benefit from this opportunity are not expected to remain with Euphoria after their long-term contract has been terminated. If a business decides that Euphoria does not meet its unique business needs, it is free to migrate to an alternative service provider whenever it chooses. By using Euphoria’s core services, businesses can find relief from the daily challenge of navigating a communication system that does not work. Business can achieve a measure of control over their business and get back to focusing on what really matters – their primary business! The business will still need to honour their contractual period with their existing service provider and pay the stipulated monthly fee until the end of their contract. However, the business can stop utilising the service provider’s product that does not suit their business needs. Instead, Euphoria’s core service will be setup for the business in a way that meets their unique business communication requirements. If your business is suffering from an unsuitable service or sub-standard service levels, get in touch with Euphoria Telecoms to find out more about migrating to a solution that works Euphoria Telecoms – Better Communication for Work