Matrix Warehouse has partnered with Mettlestate to launch the Matrix Maverick Challenge – an amateur CS:GO tournament which will feature eight up-and-coming Counter-Strike teams. The competition kicked off on 17 July 2017 and sees teams taking each other on in a round-robin-style for their share of R50,000 in prizes. The purpose of the Matrix Maverick Challenge – which will run until mid-September – is to prepare young gamers for the bigger tournaments, to give them a proper foundation to build upon, and to create that sense of pride and belonging when they get to the bigger tournaments hosted within the industry. Matrix Warehouse chose to work with Mettlestate because of its expertise in the gaming arena. Earlier this year, Mettlestate hosted the Samsung CS:GO Championship – which saw some of South Africa’s top CS teams competing for their share of a R1-million prize pool. That event went off incredibly well and was a great opportunity for the established teams to compete for a substantial prize. The Matrix Maverick Challenge will focus its time and prizes on the up-and-coming gamers. Currently, there is no one really catering for these teams. All of the current tournaments have all the top-tier teams playing in them already, and the chances of the smaller teams qualifying, let alone winning, becomes more and more difficult. The aim of this tournament to ultimately bring the smaller teams up to the same level as the more established and professional teams. Wesley Lowe, head of gaming at Matrix, affirms that getting involved with the local eSports scene has been on Matrix’s radar for awhile, and this proved to be the right opportunity to jump in. “With the eSports scene seeing rapid growth in South Africa, Matrix Warehouse understands how imperative it is to be involved in the early stages, not only in engaging with well-established gamers, but also in the development of up-and-coming gamers and the youth who are interested to get into eSports. We are very excited about this tournament,” said Lowe. One of the prizes at the tournament is a wild card entry into the next Mettlestate CS:GO tournament. “This Matrix Maverick Cup will be run on the same principles as we do our bigger tournaments, so these young gamers will get a taste of how things are run and done in the bigger tournaments, and to show them what is expected of them in the big leagues,” said Barry Louzada, cofouner of Mettlestate. In addition to landing a spot in the next Mettlestate CS:GO tournament, the winning team will also walk away with R50,000 in hardware vouchers from Matrix Warehouse, a full social and branding make-over for the team which includes logo redesigns if needed, and professional eSports shirts designed and printed for them.  This article was published in partnership with Matrix Warehouse.