GlobillCSP is a billing and revenue management platform for Microsoft CSPs that enables them to easily and accurately invoice over 300 Microsoft license based services (like Office365) and consumption based services (Azure). If you’ve signed up as a new Microsoft CSP, you may be facing the challenge of understanding this new world of software subscription billing while trying to automate the customer onboarding process, or you may just need a platform to bill and manage your customers. Astel’s CSP solution, GlobillCSP, can take care of your CSP problems. Having been built on 10 years of service provider billing and revenue management expertise, the GlobillCSP solution can have you up and running in no time. GlobillCSP offers a complete end-to-end solution to the client’s customer life-cycle management process, including CRM, provisioning, rating, billing, collection, servicing, and support elements on a consolidated platform. GlobillCSP can be utilised as one unified system or as various stand-alone modules should it better suit your needs. Designed with both Direct and Indirect CSPs in mind, GlobillCSP allows you to easily onboard customers while generating seamless leads, quotations, and trials. Its service catalogue helps you to maintain control of your profits and sales growth, while its campaign management feature allows you to create promotions and new offerings with ease. GlobillCSP also enables you to effortlessly do your billing and invoicing, improve your revenue management, maintain high quality customer relationship standards, and allows you to simply reconcile your monthly Microsoft bill ensuring no revenue leakage Furthermore, you can manage your reseller network from GlobillCSP DMS portal, allowing you to onboard resellers and manage orders through an automated end to end process. The Cloud Storefront is also built with your end customer in mind, giving customers the freedom to purchase products and services at their leisure with our web-based storefront. There is no need to replace already functioning systems you have when making a decision to invest in GlobillCSP as these solutions are flexible and developed using the latest technologies, enabling seamless integration into existing systems. For more information, visit the GlobillCSP website.  This article was published in partnership with Astel.