Businesses are increasingly looking at the future of more open, collaborative office environments for their employees, with some staff concerned about how distractions can affect them in the workplace. In a study commissioned by Plantronics, Oxford Economics uncovered that 70% of executives prioritize space for collaboration but more than half of employees say that ambient noise can affect their productivity. The study, ‘When the walls come down: How smart companies are rewriting the rules of the open workplace,’ surveyed 1,200 global employees and executives and uncovered similar tensions between what executives envision and the reality of the open office. Among some of the top findings: In an office, the ability to work distraction-free is essential and empowering both employees and businesses to improve their working environments is core. Sometimes noise is a secondary consideration in office design simply because it is not initially considered as a real challenge. What ‘Smarter Working’ looks like The ways of working are indeed evolving and changing with modern technology, nicely aligning to an approach Plantronics currently advocates called Smarter Working. Smarter Working is a positive, holistic concept which acknowledges that people can make any place where they’re comfortable working their own personal workspace. Whether it be a more traditional office, an open plan office, a meeting room, a customer conference room, or even remote office locations, the approach embraces innovation to boost efficiency and comfort for both the business and the individual. Taken into consideration are: Plantronics is an audio pioneer and a global leader in the communications industry, creating intelligent and adaptive solutions that support customers’ most important needs: experiencing and facilitating simple and clear communications while enjoying distraction-free environments. These solutions are used worldwide by consumers and businesses alike, and are an optimal choice for open office environments. From Unified Communications and customer service ecosystems, to data analytics and Bluetooth headsets, Plantronics delivers high-quality communications solutions that our customers count on today, while relentlessly innovating on behalf of their future. The following infographic goes into more detail about the changes in the workplace. For more information, visit the Plantronics website.  This article was published in partnership with Plantronics.