The advent of emails had revolutionized business communications at the time, but with the arrival of smartphones, VoiP services and cloud technology, communication has reached a whole new level. In business, this has changed the way many companies operate worldwide, and with so many workers worldwide working in virtual teams, many business relationships now depend on these technologies. In the past, companies might have a team of account and technical personnel at a key meeting, but with technological advances in communication this is no longer the case. Thanks to video conferencing devices, costs can be cut by making long distance work discussions doable from the comfort of your own office. With video conferencing systems like the Yealink VC system you might only need to see two people in person and have the rest participate through video conferencing. Conference software also allows you to “share your screen” with the viewers, allowing company-wide training and the like as well. This means you don’t need to choose between either taking a twelve-hour long flight or alternatively try to discuss complex issues over the phone without visuals. You can trim meeting costs and travelling time, while still giving customers a true face-to-face experience. With the better communication and increased level of flexibility, business leaders can stay in close touch with their most invaluable resource – their employees – and therefore being able to manage them better. Thanks to these technological advancements distances have become irrelevant, while collaboration among co-workers have improved massively. However, since many still rely on face-to-face meetings, we aren’t writing them off completely. A study by Oxford Economics reveals that clients you work with remotely often book a whole lot more work once you’ve shared a handshake, some smiles and maybe a meal. Instead of looking at video conferencing as an alternative to offsite meetings, many companies are combining the two as a powerful follow-up to face-to-face connections. Activate Telecoms, a Yealink reseller offers the Yealink VC Series – a range of video conferencing endpoints that enables users to connect visually and to collaborate more effectively. Designed to end the video conferencing dilemma for many businesses by applying leading-edge videoconferencing technologies, the VC series brings advanced features and ensures high-quality video collaboration with remarkable ease and cost-effectiveness. For more information visit the Activate Telecoms website. This article was published in partnership with Activate Telecoms.