Cell C, MTN, and Vodacom will respond to proposed mobile data regulations from ICASA. The regulator wants new standards for the expiry of data bundles and out-of-bundle billing. ICASA published the proposed regulations in the Government Gazette on 7 August, giving stakeholders 30 days to respond. It wants mobile operators to send SMS notifications at 50%, 75%, 90%, and 100% depletion of voice, SMS, or data bundles. The regulations also mandate networks to let subscribers choose whether they want to use out-of-bundle data. The proposal also sets out minimum validity periods for data bundles – as shown in the table below – and states that unused mobile data should roll over to the following month if a user recharges when a bundle is not depleted. MTN said it has noted the proposed amendments and is “applying its mind”. “The proposed amendments governs the provision and charging of voice, SMS, and data services,” said Moses Mashisane, GM for regulatory affairs at MTN SA. It will submit comments to ICASA within the deadline. Vodacom said it will participate in ICASA’s consultation process on the regulations. “Vodacom is committed to bringing down data prices and has brought down effective data pricing by 44% over the last 3 years,” it said. “Vodacom has made significant inroads in recent years in its pricing transformation journey.” It said it also remains committed to addressing issues around out-of-bundle billing. Cell C said it is studying the draft regulations and will make submissions to the regulator within the stipulated timeframe. “Once we have had the opportunity to properly interrogate the document, we will make a comment,” said Cell C. “Our subject matter experts are in receipt of the draft that was published and are now in the process of scrutinising the same,” said Telkom. “Telkom has consistently reviewed its products and pricing and will continue to do so with due consideration for any and all mechanisms that are aimed at further reducing the cost to communicate.”