Gearbest.com is offering a wide range of Xiaomi smartphones at awesome discounts. Since 2010, Xiaomi have been creating remarkable, hardware, software, and internet services, and is continually expanding its footprint across the globe. The brand believes that high-quality technology doesn’t need to cost a fortune, and incorporates feedback from their Mi-Fans into their product range. This ensures that their quality products keep on improving every time. Xiaomi have recently launched their latest flagship model that is now available from Gearbest.com together with other great Xiaomi smartphone models.  Xiaomi’s latest smartphone, which was launched in August 2017, is the Redmi Note 5A. The phone comes with a 5.50-inch touchscreen display with a resolution of 720 pixels by 1280 pixels. The Xiaomi Redmi Note 5A is powered by quad-core Snapdragon 425 processor and it comes with 2GB of RAM. The phone packs 16GB of internal storage that can be expanded up to 128GB via a microSD card. As far as the cameras are concerned, the Xiaomi Redmi Note 5A packs a 13-megapixel primary camera on the rear and a 5-megapixel front shooter for selfies. Xiaomi’s latest flagship is available on Gearbest for only $189.99 on pre-sale. The following Smartphones are also available from Gearbest. Xiaomi Redmi Note 4 4G Phablet  – $155.99 with coupon: GBSARMIN for the first 20 pieces sold  This deal gives you 18% off. Xiaomi Mi 5X 4G Phablet  – $259.99  With this deal, you get 13% off. Xiaomi Mi 6 4G Smartphone  – $399.99 with coupon: GBSAMI6 for the first 15 pieces sold  With this deal, you receive 30% off. XiaoMi Mi5 64GB 4G Smartphone – $242.99 with coupon: GBSAMI5 for the first 20 pieces sold  This deal gives you 34% off. Gearbest is giving away gift cards to the value of $20 each (free purchase from Gearbest). To enter, simply like the @ZAGadgetReviews Facebook page and share the gift card give away post to your personal Facebook page. @ZAGadgetReviews will choose 5 winners of which each will receive a $20 gift card to purchase any gadget of their choice within that price. To make life easier, Gearbest accepts a number of secure payment methods designed to be completely safe and friendly. GearBest primarily uses PayPal to process secure payments through which they accept MasterCard, VISA, American Express, Discover, and bank transfer (debit card). PayPal also insures your funds so that if anything goes wrong, your money is safe. Gearbest further also accepts Credit Card payments using Mastercard or Visa. Gearbest offers 4 different shipping methods: unregistered airmail (20-45 working days), registered airmail (20-45 working days), priority line (3-7 days) and expedited shipping (3-7 days). The best shipping method to South Africa is Priority Line or Expedited shipping as they both deliver in under 7 days, and will ensure you get your item safely, quickly and at the best price. You can find Gearbest’s South African partner on the MyBroadband forum under the name GearBestZA. To find out more about payments, shipping, or their products on offer, please visit the Gearbest website. This article was published in partnership with Gearbest.