Tech toys generally get taken up by boys first, but the new DJI Spark is an exception to the rule.
It’s super compact, seriously affordable, darn easy to use, and appeals to both women and men alike. We recently handed one over to actress and weFix ambassador, Leandie Bosch, and asked her to try out this new sexy little piece of tech and tell us what she thought. The Spark is a mini drone that features all DJI’s signature technologies, allowing you to seize the moment whenever you feel inspired. With intelligent flight control options, a mechanical gimbal, and a camera with incredible image quality, Spark empowers you to push your creative boundaries. She knew a bit about drones before she got the DJI Spark because her husband uses one plus they’re often used on set especially when filming movies (such as her newest role in Thys En Trix). “I was very nervous as I can’t even drive a remote-control car properly without driving it into a wall, but I have to say, it is pretty straight forward once you know where everything is and exactly how it works,” Leandie explains.  With FaceAware, Spark lifts off from your hand by recognizing your face, taking off and hovering in place within seconds of powering on, offering a quick launch. You can also take amazing aerial photos using just hand gestures, without a remote controller or mobile device, making it easy to control. It offers the ability to create with ease thanks to its Intelligent Flight Modes and intuitive controls that help you create cinematic aerial videos with just a few taps. Editing and sharing is also easy, as the DJI GO 4 App features automatic editing templates and an array of filters that allow you to quickly edit videos and share them straight to social media. Leandie outlined 4 other things that make the DJI Spark an excellent choice: Leandie offers the following top tip for new users: “Watch the DJI tutorial online on how to use your Spark so that you get the most benefit out of it and know everything you need to have a safe and pleasant flight.” For more information, visit the DJI Spark website or you can buy DJI Spark at any of 36 weFix stores nationwide or at www.wefix.co.za.  This article was published in partnership with weFix.