RS Components (RS), the trading brand of Electrocomponents plc (LSE:ECM), the global distributor for engineers, launches the new pi-topPULSE from pi-top, the makers of the world’s most affordable Raspberry Pi based computer. The sleek, HAT compatible, pi-top add-on board functions as a high-end Raspberry Pi Speaker, features a vivid LED matrix and includes an inbuilt microphone that integrates to give you your very own interactive Raspberry Pi assistant. The pi-topPULSE is an integrated solution for music, lights and sound that can be used by makers, students and educators alike. Measuring only 60x67mm, it’s easy to transport and deploy in any classroom. It can be used both as an add-on for pi-top or pi-topCEED, and additionally as a HAT for the Raspberry Pi 3. Useful in projects as a LED array, speaker and microphone, the pi-topPULSE can be used for games, to listen to music, sample music recordings and be programmed as a voice controlled Raspberry Pi. Jesse Lozano, Co-Founder of pi-top explains, “Although children love technology, there is often a difficulty when it comes to keeping them engaged for long periods of time without an interactive and creative based exercise. Therefore, the inclusion of Art within STEAM is vital. Arts encourage the development of visual-spatial skills, an increased practice in problem solving, and collaboration as kids contribute to creative projects. Aiding in this pi-topPULSE adds a depth of perseverance, focus and creativity to the classroom.” Suitable for beginners and experts alike, the pi-topPULSE is a fun, educational tool that helps bring the Arts into STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts and Maths) projects with added visual and creative elements. pi-topPULSE offers a plethora of projects across the board, including classic games such as Snake, which can be easily programmed and brought to life. Dr. Kerry Freedman, Head of Art and Design Education at Northern Illinois University says, “Children need to know more about the world than just what they can learn through text and numbers. Art education teaches students how to interpret, criticize, and use visual information, and how to make choices based on it.” The pi-topPULSE’s key features include; pi-topPULSE is exclusively available from RS Components http://www.rsonline.co.za Rob Maycroft, Global Product Manager at RS Components, says: “The pi-topPULSE is an exciting new addition to the growing family of products that augment the powerful capabilities of the Raspberry Pi. This new innovative board combines science, technology, engineering and mathematics education with the arts, delivering an all-in-one portable solution for music, light and sound for use in the classroom and elsewhere.”  This article was published in partnership with RS Components.