The cloud has become part of the new business landscape, and it’s only going to get more popular as time goes on. The IDC predicts that by the end of 2017, two-thirds of Global 2000 companies will have digital transformation at the centre of their corporate strategy. This is just another indication that, as with most things in life, if you want to stay current and keep your business growing, you’ll have to adapt. This means that businesses need to look at their company and consider embarking on the digital transformation process. The Axiz owned Cloud services aggregation platform, AxizCloud, is capable of provisioning, managing and billing sourced from multiple vendors.  In the case of Microsoft, AxizCloud utilises the Microsoft Cloud Solutions Provider (CSP) Program as one way you can enable innovative new cloud and business scenarios that scale as your customers’ needs grow. To get there, Microsoft is streamlining and accelerating their commercial licensing strategy through their CSP Program. The program is designed to help transforming enterprises to adapt and evolve so they can own the end-to-end relationship with customers and still leverage products that are known, wanted and needed by businesses. These products include Ofﬁce 365, Dynamics 365 and Azure. By participating in the CSP program, you will be able to set your own prices and proﬁt margins for reselling those popular Microsoft products. Essentially, you will be enabled to drive stronger customer relationships and engagement, increase your proﬁtability and streamline your revenue and growth for years to come. The program has no restrictions regarding company size, nor level of competence. So, your cloud business can join from South Africa and Africa and all the way to the Middle East; across 32 countries currently and with any number of employees, even if you’re a newcomer to cloud solutions. This opportunity allows you to transform your business and develop monthly recurring revenue by offering value-added services for Ofﬁce 365, such as business consulting, integration work and app development. You can also offer your customers managed services under the CSP program, such as support and deployment to help build your profitability. To find out more, you can contact Axiz via email MicrosoftCSP@axiz.com or read up about the offerings on the Axiz website, and to register you can click here. This article was published in partnership with Axiz.