Print security may not seem critical to your business, but it’s not just a printer they want to hack. It’s your business. As part of a new global drive by HP to raise awareness of the security risks facing businesses and consumers, HP Studios’ recently launched a new web series. From director Lance Acord, starring award-winning actor Christian Slater, the series illustrates how easily a corporate network can be hacked through poorly secured printers and PCs. “As the universe of connected devices grows exponentially, so does the sophistication and magnitude of cyber-attacks,” said Antonio Lucio, HP Chief Marketing and Communications Officer. “Securing devices, data and identities is an imperative in driving continued confidence in technology and with whom and with what we choose to connect.” HP is leading from the front to continually make meaningful progress in securing the future of computing, and The Wolf is a creative way to raise awareness of this growing challenge for companies. HP Enterprise printers can detect, protect, and even self-heal from attacks–automatically, while HP Pro printers offer powerful security for any office, with features that can detect and stop an attack as it happens. HP JetAdvantage Security Manager, the industry’s only policy-based imaging and printing compliance solution automates print fleet security. You can easily set security configuration policies and automatically validate settings for every HP printer in your fleet. Only HP printers can stop an attack the moment it starts with unique security features, but HP Print Security isn’t just about securing your printer. It’s about helping to secure your entire network with real-time threat detection, automated monitoring, and built-in software validation that no one else offers. Data and business information is more vulnerable than ever, so stay one step ahead of hackers, thieves, and unauthorised users with industry-leading security solutions. For more information, visit the HP website. The full video is available below.  This article was published in partnership with HP.