From series and movies for you, to new children’s shows for your kids (because we know they’ve watched the same show a hundred times over) Showmax has got you covered this March, including a series that is streaming for the first time: War & Peace This is all the new content you can watch on ShowMax this March. First on ShowMax! War and Peace S1 Planned Release Date: 10/03  This six-part adaptation of Tolstoy’s classic is breath-taking in its scope, sets and costumes. Three young aristocrats search for love and meaning, but their lives are about to change forever. >>Watch the trailer Marvel’s Agents of Shield S1 – S2 Planned Release Date: 13/03  Joss Whedon brings us this high-octane series with mind-blowing special effects. A highly select team of SHIELD Agents under Agent Coulson protect ordinary people from the superhuman terrorist organisation Hydra. >>Watch the trailer Castle S1 – S7 Planned Release Date: 27/03  Novelist Rick Castle joins the NYPD when a serial killer starts copying the murders committed in his books. He is partnered with detective Kate Beckett, and the cat-and-mouse game begins. >>Watch the trailer New Movies RED (2010) Planned Release Date: 03/03  Frank, a former black ops agent, has his peaceful life disrupted by a new breed of assassin. An all-star cast play his fellow REDs, who prove they’ve still got it. >>Watch now Meet the Fockers (2004) Planned Release Date: 09/03  Now that ex-CIA man Jack Byrnes has given Greg Focker permission to marry his daughter, he and his wife meet the eccentric Focker family … who almost change his mind. >>Watch the trailer Mission Impossible: Ghost Protocol (2011) Planned Release Date: 23/03  The Impossible Missions Force has been officially disbanded, but that doesn’t stop Ethan Hunt and team from hunting down a dangerous terrorist who’s got his hands on Russia’s nuclear codes. Kids Additions Transformers: Robots in Disguise (New episodes – Age 7+) Planned Release Date: 02/03  In a new age of prosperity, many years after the war between the Autobots and Decepticons, Bumblebee is a galactic peace officer.
But evil is about to rise again … Mr Men and Little Miss S1 (Age 5+) Planned Release Date: 06/03  Meet Mr Happy, Little Miss Sunshine and their friends as they go about their daily business and get into all sorts of trouble. Based on the iconic, much-loved children’s books. Non-Fiction Additions Football Stars Planned Release Date: 06/03  Find out what goes on off-field between the multimillionaire celebs who are our favourite football heroes, in their personal lives and professional rivalries. Total Combat Presents One Championship Planned Release Date: 16/03  With a hand-picked fight card in every episode, long-time Mixed Martial Arts rivals settle their differences the only way they know how. Get your fix with these full-length MMA fights. Fight Stars S1 Planned Release Date: 30/03  Real-life fighters put aside their bravado and macho attitudes in this special that reveals the beyond-the-ring lives of sport’s newest breed of male and female heroes. Click here to see more. Not a customer yet? Check out the 14-day free trial on the Showmax website.  This article was published in partnership with Showmax.