Many gamers rarely go beyond their mouse and keyboard when considering the final stages of perfecting their game. What they don’t realise is that a fast, reliable and stable internet connection can take them to a whole new level of gaming, and that’s achievable with WTFast. Put simply, WTFast is a “Gamer’s Private Network” which analyses gaming traffic from a wide range of games and optimises your route to those gaming servers. The idea of WTFast existed as an external application developed by Canadian company and required a monthly subscription in order to make use of their application. But, why would you want to?  Being a part of the Gamer’s Private Network (GPN) meant your pings were lower, there were very little lag spikes, and your response time was noticeably quicker. This would inevitably provide an edge over other gamers, but locally it would put you on a level playing field when joining European servers. Remember, geographical location still plays a huge part in determining your ping, so if you’re connecting to Europe, expect the usual latency, except with an average improvement of up to 15% on your ping. You may be wondering why this technology hasn’t been implemented on every device? Well, the good news is ASUS recently partnered with WTFast creating two incredible, fast, reliable routers; the ASUS RT-AC88U and the RT-AC5300.  Both of these routers are our top of the range featuring our dual-band and tri-band technology as well as a wide range of features. What this partnership achieves is a built in system which uses WTFast to optimize your gaming needs both on wired and wireless connections. This is, of course, a free client meaning you wouldn’t have to pay the monthly subscription fee. All your gaming traffic would be optimized, twice, by both ASUS’s technology within the router, and WTFast ensuring you’re on your way on the fastest route. WTFast offers a free 14-day trial if you wish to find out what it’s about. We’ve tested it on a wide range of games from World of Warcaft to Dota 2. This article was published in partnership with ASUS.