We know when it comes to buying a certain car, features are crucial, and for IT connoisseurs compromise is not an option. Everyone wants travelling peace of mind for their Easter getaway while doing it in style and the Mercedes-Benz A-Class offers you just that – and more. If you are planning your Easter getaway, it may be time to upgrade your wheels to a car that fits your profile for your holiday. Why you should consider the Mercedes A-Class It’s a strapping car, impressively dynamic, highly intelligent and perfectly networked. With a diamond grille, new LED High-Performance headlamps and exhaust tailpipes integrated into the bumper and the Dynamic Select button, to alter driving characteristics in its four driving modes, the conflicting aims of sportiness and enhanced comfort are reconciled. The Mercedes A-Class offers surpassing safety features, starting with SE, then Sport and AMG Line. For the holidays accident-free driving features that will bring you back safely include: The AMG line has larger alloy wheels and even bigger brakes and firmer suspension in the case of the latter, which sharpens handling. You can also beat the 2017 fuel hikes and enjoy a cost-efficient holiday thanks to fuel efficiency in the A-Class. The A-Class comes in four economic petrol engines, badged A160, A180, A200, and A250, which manage fuel economy between 6.8 and 5.2 litres per 100 kilometres. If you are interested in purchasing Mercedes A-Class, you can visit any Mercedes-Benz retailer and get it on Agility. The offer is calculated on an A 200 Automatic (Facelift) at a rate of 9.26% linked over 36 months, and a 15.10% deposit. It is also calculated at a Guaranteed Future Value (GFV) of 59.05% based on 20,000 km pa. This offer is valid until 31 March 2017 subject to availability at participating dealers only. Over holidays such as Easter, the Mercedes A-Class is an affordable, safe and fuel efficient premium brand hatchback you can rely on. For more information visit the Mercedes-Benz website. This article was published in partnership with Mercedes-Benz.