The technology industry is booming, and software developers are in high demand, but are they problem solvers? The software industry in South Africa likely to see an increase of over 11% in enterprise applications software spending during 2017, according to a report by the International Data Corporation (IDC). With this, the demand for software developers continues to grow globally, with employment in all computer occupations is expected to increase by 22% by 2020, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS). SMSPortal is looking for software developers who apply logic to everyday problems. SMSPortal is currently running a recruitment campaign and are in search of coding problem solvers to join a great team. “Coding problem solvers change the way we look at things, code is code, but applying logic to tackle everyday hurdles is a true art ” said James Pearce, IT Director. Developers who apply and are successfully hired will receive a one month signing bonus. “Yes, we do pay well, and we’re throwing in a one month signing bonus for anyone who successfully makes it through our hiring process in the next 2 months,” Pearce said. SMSPortal has seen 50% growth year on year for the past decade and continues to push the boundaries of what is possible in the telecoms sector. “SMSPortal is growing faster than we had ever dreamed 15years ago, and obviously the faster we grow the faster we need to hire and build our team,” said Pearce. “Good Software Developers are a scarce commodity in this new digital world we live in.” According to a report by the International Data Corporation (IDC), South Africa’s software industry is forecast to see an 11.6% increase in enterprise applications software spending to R11.2 billion in 2017. While research by Gartner shows that South Africa ranks among the world’s top 30 countries for software development and software developers are globally sought after. “As our global footprint continues to grow, so does the need for developers who can jump in and take on this challenge,” Pearce added. For more information, visit http://www.smsportal.co.za/#!careers. This article was published in partnership with SMSPortal.