The next generation of ThinkPad X1 products cater to the evolving consumer, who now blurs the line between work and personal PC use. The new ThinkPad X1 family focuses on what matters most to users, based on the feedback, insight and experience of Lenovo customers. The 2017 ThinkPad X1 Carbon, available in classic ThinkPad starts at just 1.13 kg, making it the lightest 14-inch business Ultrabook on the planet. And at just 15.95 mm thin and constructed with satellite-grade carbon fibre, it’s extremely portable yet tough. Now offering up to 15.5 hours of battery* life for extended time away, the X1 Carbon features a Windows 10 Pro operating system and up to 7th generation Intel 7-7600U with vPro. This means lots of manageability features and enhanced security, which is further enhanced by the Touch Sensor Fingerprint Reader and Trusted Platform Module (TPM), which is a specialised chip designed to secure hardware. The X1 Carbon is also Skype for Business-certified, includes integrated speakers with Dolby audio and an HD webcam. A WQHD IPS display and antiglare screen mean the videos are clearer, text is crisper, images are brighter, and colours are truer, and with IPS technology you can view the screen from nearly 180-degrees. The updated ThinkPad X1 Yoga, available in the new metallic silver, is flawlessly flexible and adapts to its users’ needs offering multi-mode capability and can deliver stunning colours and absolute blacks on the only 14-inch notebook with an OLED screen. As a thin and light 2-in-1 convertible, the ThinkPad X1 Yoga supports four flexible usage modes for when you want to work, present, create, and connect. The full-sized, backlit keyboard is spill-resistant and the keys retract automatically when not being used as a laptop, so they are not exposed when the keyboard is face-down on a desk or table. The X1 Yoga is tested against military specifications and made to endure extremes, yet it weighs just 1.42 kg. Like the rest of the X1 family, this convertible Ultrabook™ is thin, light, and tough. It has an OLED touchscreen display with self-lighting pixels that render a wider range of highly accurate colours. It also includes a dockable stylus pen that recharges when connected—just 15 seconds of charging gives up to 100 minutes of use. With Lenovo’s exclusive WRITEit technology, you can enter handwriting into any input field across hundreds of apps, and it automatically suggests and corrects your writing. With optional LTE-A, you get the fastest, most advanced mobile broadband technology, and you can stay connected yet go unplugged all day, as the battery lasts up to 16 hours*. The specifications of the ThinkPad X1 Carbon and ThinkPad X1 Yoga are detailed in the table below. * Based on testing three different product configurations with MobileMark 2014. Battery life varies significantly with settings, usage, and other factors. This article was published in partnership with Lenovo.