Neo Ntshole’s business really took off from the deep desire she had to help solve people’s problems. In a previous role as a facilitator, she met with a number of micro enterprises in the townships and rural areas and in various discussions she had with the small business owners. Many raised issues they were experiencing relating to stock acquisition which required them to close shop and leave the premises, as well as challenges relating to routes to market and financial management. Their biggest challenge was receiving stock at the right time. After spending time with the shop owners, Neo knew she could find a way to develop a business that would help solve these challenges in the communities. She joined a 6-month Raizcorp business growth programme in order to develop her idea into an operating business, and after completing the programme, she can now proudly boast that she is in the process of building an app. She firmly believes that technology can address challenges relating to time and distance and her app – which is in the prototype phase – will go a long way to help connect the tuckshop owners and their suppliers. “With tech anything is possible!” says Neo when asked about her business. “I want to show these shop owners the value that technology can bring to their businesses and in turn help them become educated and empowered. So far it has been an exciting and oftentimes tough journey. “I don’t have an IT background so learning to trust people with my product and my ideas has been taxing at times. Being on the programme helped me realise that I don’t necessarily need the technical background to make my business work.” The Corporate who sponsored Neo to be on 6-month Raizcorp programme provided her with mentors and technical experts who imparted invaluable knowledge and expertise. She was able to access their research lab, and developers worked closely with her to build the prototype for her app. The general business skills and knowledge that she learned while working with Raizcorp’s Guides (business “mentors”) helped her focus and manage her accounts correctly, and she gained a better understanding of what her business was and what she wanted to do. “Going forward, I am focusing on relationship building with the wholesalers, new producers and small-scale farmers,” Neo added. “I am trying to make new brands accessible to the market as small business owners very often can’t afford big brand names. I am looking forward to having a community for producers and growing alongside them. “I could not have achieved what I have so far without the knowledge and mentorship received on the programme. It has opened my eyes, and now I know that I am not just doing things blindly. I can now help solve challenges.” For more information on the Raizcorp business growth programme, click here. This article was published in partnership with Raizcorp.