In an industry overwhelmed with solutions, Ozone is providing IT service providers the right tools for their clients, says Henk Olivier, Ozone Information Technology Solutions MD. Ozone also educates resellers to provide the correct solutions to their clients. Many businesses are aware of the basic principles of an IT infrastructure, but not everyone knows where to begin or what are the important factors in IT infrastructure that cannot be overlooked. These are basic points and questions is what IT providers must know, and business owners can ask. “It is important for companies to realise that they need the right firewall solution that protects the business inside the network as well as from outside of the network,” says Olivier. “You cannot just block all Internet content and social media. You need to educate users and make sure they use the Internet to be more productive.” Another example is VOIP Solutions, which IT companies can now also easily provide to their clients. “IT companies don’t need experience in configuring a PABX anymore,” Olivier adds. Technology today gives IT service providers the opportunity to give their clients the full technology solution from one single supplier. Businesses can now subscribe to Cloud Services either directly or via an IT company that resells these services. “I will always suggest that it is better for businesses to get these services from an IT service provider rather than trying to manage and administer everything on their own,” concludes Olivier. “Businesses does not always know what the correct solutions are, and there are just too many solutions these days to choose from.” Ozone Information Technology is a distributing company of Cloud solutions to SME companies, and IT service providers can resell a full solution to their clients from Ozone’s range of products. Ozone Information Technology is currently distributing these products: Kerio Control Firewall: Kerio Connect mail server: Kerio Operator: For more information, visit the Ozone website. This article was published in partnership with Ozone Information Technology Solutions.