Data needs to be immediate. It’s essential to every business and every person, and it must be available at any time. Even a slight disruption in the IT infrastructure causes an App-Data Gap that will leave you wanting. Nimble Storage is the answer to preventing these disruptions. Nimble eliminates the App-Data Gap, giving customers around the world the opportunity to experience the fastest, most reliable access to data. “In middle 2007 I remember my co-founder mentioning that flash drives could be used for enterprise storage. “I remember thinking that we have been building filing systems for hard disks for decades, where you would be shipping drives with lots of gigabytes at that time, and all that they would be used for is an additional spindle. “Flash changed all of that,” says Nimble Storage co-founder Umesh Maheshwari. As such, Nimble was founded in 2008 with the core belief that flash, cloud and big data analytics would disrupt the storage market – and were they right. “Our mission is to deliver data velocity; enabling customers to accelerate core business processes,” adds Maheshwari. Yet, while flash is a game-changer, on its own is not enough. To experience absolute performance, non-stop availability, and cloud-like agility you can embed predictive analytics in a unified flash fabric. Nimble’s Predictive Flash Platform delivers two unique capabilities: Predictive Analytics for radical simplicity and Unified Flash Fabric for freedom of choice. Predictive analytics attacks the root cause of the app-data gap: infrastructure complexity. InfoSight predicts and prevents problems beyond just storage—so you can simplify operations and accelerate all your apps. Predictive analytics helps Nimble deliver 99.9999% measured uptime. The Nimble Unified Flash Fabric is a single consolidation architecture that enables flash for all Enterprise Applications. For the most performance-sensitive apps, Hybrid Flash for tier 2 needs, or these combined, you can use All Flash to consolidate, scale on demand, cut your TCO by 33-66%, and shrink your data centre footprint up to 5x. “Until now, enterprises have been forced to choose between Hybrid Flash and All Flash arrays, but that’s no longer the case with the Nimble Unified Flash Fabric,” Maheshwari says. Nimble Storage has achieved the highest satisfaction rating in the storage industry with Solutions that are the foundation for on-premises private clouds, SaaS and managed services—for companies of all types and sizes, in virtually every industry. For more information, visit www.nimblestorage.com. This article was published in partnership with Virtual Works Africa.