The recent launch of the Bitdefender 2018 consumer range to the South African marketplace sees the company offering a multi-layered detection system that outperforms any (similar) security solution currently on offer. For the past six years, Bitdefender has dominated research organisation, AV-Test’s protection results with “Outstanding Results” cited for 2017. AV-Test is one of the world’s leading independent IT security and anti-virus research organisations. AV-Test is one of many top rankings by independent testing organisations which underscores why Bitdefender today provides protection to over 500 million computers across the globe and consistently outperforms the competition. “With the new Bitdefender 2018 for consumer, users can take advantage of product offerings like Bitdefender 2018 Total Security which offers the best protection against malware, across platforms. The feature-packed solution offers protection for Windows, MacOS, iOS and Android devices; it’s a powerful and very easy to use solution,” says Leo Meyer, MD of Black Castle Technologies, official Bitdefender country partner for consumer products. In line with the ever-pervasive and sophisticated nature of security onslaughts, the company has added various new and advanced features to the Bitdefender 2018 consumer range. Bitdefender’s Advanced Threat Defense technology identifies suspicious processes and actively protects systems from even the most advanced malware. The technology correlates events related to what an application does on the system and identifies potentially malicious behaviour. Advanced Threat Defense can pinpoint any suspicious activity patterns and utilises Bitdefender Global Protection Network to accurately detect even the newest ransomware attacks. Bitdefender 2018 for consumer also introduces an improved Multi-layer Approach to Ransomware protection. The first layer of protection is enabled by Advanced Threat Defense which detect ransomware-specific types of behaviour and block any suspicious applications. The second layer is the new feature Safe Files which allows only authorised applications to change important user files kept in protected folders. Users can simply add folders to the watch list; Bitdefender guards the files stored in it against ransomware and other types of malware. Only applications that users explicitly trust are allowed access to Safe Files. Also new to Bitdefender 2018 consumer, is Webcam Protection which allows only trusted applications to grab images, keeping users protected against malware or hackers that might be trying to snoop in their activities. Webcam Protection leverages the Bitdefender Whitelist to let only safe and trusted applications access the device webcam while unknown applications are automatically blocked. Other new and improved Bitdefender 2018 features include: For more on the Bitdefender 2018 consumer products please visit www.bitdefender.com. The product range is available from leading retailers and online stores. This article was published in partnership with Black Castle Technologies.