We’ve all had some hassles and frustrations when we wanted to purchase something that was only available in another country. So, how can you purchase a product that is unavailable in South Africa without having to go through all the hassle and headaches? Aramex Global Shopper is a global E-Commerce shipping solution that enables shopping from online retailers across the world and delivers orders right to your door in South Africa. Using the AGS shipping solution, customers can enhance their online shopping experience from 17 countries including the US, the UK, China, India, France and Thailand. Supported by Aramex’s extensive global freight and express courier network, not only does AGS enable a quick and convenient shipping experience that ensures delivery of packages within 3 – 6 working days (pending customs clearance), but AGS is competitively priced. Aramex Global Shopper also clears shipments from customs on clients’ behalf while offering full shipment tracking visibility through their website. AGS will also send you regular status updates right from when your package is delivered to the origin hub, clearing customs, ready for payment and finally en route to your door. With AGS Protect, you will receive free insurance for shipments under $100. Shipments above US$100 and up to US$2500 or equivalent are protected against loss or damage at an additional small fee. If at any time during the first year of having an active Aramex Global Shopper account, you believe that the service did not meet your expectations, you can ask for a membership fee refund – no questions asked. To bring the wonderful world of global online shopping to your door, just register online for an AGS Lifetime Membership today! The cost to register for this service is $45, but MyBroadband readers get an exclusive discounted rate of $10. Simply apply the promo code AGS10MBB during the checkout stage of the registration process to claim this discounted lifetime membership. Sign up today to #ShoptheWorld! www.aramexglobalshopper.com  This article was published in partnership with Aramex.