MTN is promoting the use of ad-blockers, which seriously hurt online publishers and mobile app developers which provide their products to the public for free. “Adverts on websites and in your free apps use up data to load and watch. Enable your browser ad-blocking on your smartphone!” said MTN in a tweet. Many of the apps and websites which MTN refers to rely on advertising to offer their services to the public for free. Without advertising, digital content and services will vanish, or their production and distribution costs will have to be paid for by the consumer. Ad-blockers therefore pose a serious risk to South African companies and free services which millions of South Africans enjoy. The Interactive Advertising Bureau (IAB) has called ad-blocking a potentially existential threat to the online industry. “As abetted by for-profit technology companies, ad-blocking is robbery, plain and simple,” said the IAB. “It is an extortionist scheme that exploits consumer disaffection and risks distorting the economics of democratic capitalism.” The IAB added that ad-blocking is an example of unethical technology companies seeking to divert ad spending into their own pockets. Considering the potential impact of ad-blockers on the industry – like job losses and businesses shutting down – it is curious that MTN is promoting the technology. MTN is endorsing the use of morally-questionable services which negatively impact the lives of thousands of South Africans who rely on online advertising for their livelihoods. “Thanks for kicking local publishers in the balls… not like we don’t work our ass off to provide content free of charge,” said Critical Hit publisher Gavin Mannion in response to MTN. MTN has defended advocating for the use ad-blockers, which forms part of the company’s “education drive to educate customers about saving tips on data”. “The post that is published on our platform is part of an education drive to sensitise our customers about applications that may unknowingly deplete customer data,” said MTN CIO Benjamin Marais. “As a responsible corporate citizen, MTN has a responsibility to empower customers with the necessary tools to manage their data bundles more effectively.” 