Mobile apps have changed our lives in almost every aspect – from personal to business, from fitness to banking. According to the app-tracking company Flurry, the world has adopted smart phones and tablets ten times faster than it embraced personal computers in the 1980s. The adoption has also occurred twice as fast as the Internet boom of the ’90s, and three times faster than we joined social networks in the new millennium. However, due to the price of data in South Africa, we tend to download apps with the expectation that they will be meaningful and will improve our lives in some way. Many of us now rely on pocket-sized computers to communicate, shop, play, read, date, learn, exercise, take photos, and find directions. Yet, most of the apps we download we either try once and delete or relegate to a back page on our phones where they are essentially “out of sight, out of mind”. However, when an app adds value to our lives, is fun and engaging or extremely useful, we use it 24/7, and it becomes indispensable. A great example of an app that has made our lives infinitely easier and allowed us to live better is the banking app. Banking apps allow us to do banking as we would in the branch, anywhere in the world at any time. It’s the best way to bank – secure, easy to use and available on supported smartphones. It is also often more cost effective, with transactions on the banking app costing as little as half of what you would pay for a branch transaction. The world is becoming increasingly mobile, and things like wasting time in queues, at ATMs or in branches are becoming a thing of the past. With a few quick taps, you can get all your banking duties done and still have time for many other things on your To-Do list. Capitec’s banking app allows you to do payments, buy electricity (for yourself or a friend), view your last electricity tokens purchased, stop and/or dispute debit orders, make a payment into your credit account, stop lost or stolen cards immediately, view or email tax interest certificates, and so much more. For more information about Capitec’s banking app, click here. This article was published in partnership with Capitec Bank.