According to the annual Ericson Mobility Report, Sub Saharan Africa had 690 million mobile subscribers at the end of 2015, accounting for about 70% of the population. By the end of 2016, this number went up to 720 million subscribers. Of these subscribers, 22% are smartphone users with an internet connection. In 2015, 1.4 billion smartphones were sold around the world and 78.1 million wearable smart devices were shipped. By December 2015, 3.7 Billion GB of mobile data traffic per month was recorded for that year, globally. What does this tell us? Well, people are “going mobile” all around the world and developing markets such as Sub Saharan Africa are no exception. Rising connectivity and more affordable technology is driving the tech revolution in even the poorest countries. This phenomenon is not only visible in individual behaviour but also in business. Companies are relying more and more on mobile technology to drive efficiency and create transparency in their businesses. A recent Gartner report points out that more than 80 percent of respondents said they plan to use tablets in sales, specifically because it provides easy access to critical data on the go. The advent of affordable and simplistic tech solutions is allowing smaller local businesses to keep up with larger multinational competitors who have had expensive, complex custom solutions in place for years. Staying up to date with the smartest business technology has never been easier so there is no reason that your business should fall behind. Honeybee is a sales mobility solution that can bring your business up to speed. With a variety of functions that are aimed at increasing visibility, communication and information sharing, honeybee will ensure that your teams in the field are more effective than ever before. It’s state of the art tracking, reporting, ordering and BI functionalities will drive efficiency in your business. The trend towards mobile devices for business is unstoppable. Hopping on the business tech express early in the game will immediately put your business at an advantage. For more information visit Honeybee. This article was published in partnership with Honeybee.