Rectron recommends Microsoft Software. Rectron offers Electronic Software Delivery (ESD) to make software delivery less complex, super quick and highly convenient. With customers becoming increasingly demanding and the digital world expanding daily, digital delivery is essential. Rectron brings you ESD as a quicker, simpler, cheaper, and all round more convenient way to buy traditional retail boxed software products. It has boxes all the benefits of the traditional Box product. From keeping in touch with friends and family over skype to online shopping, everything you do revolves around convenience, and ESD is just that. If you are looking to save time and money, you can use ESD to easily get the software you need online. With ESD you can also enjoy the freedom of fulfilling your software needs from the destination of your choice as well as quick and seamless delivery of software to the device of your choice. ESD allows you to access all your software needs when you need them, meaning you will have more time to do the things that matter to you. When you purchase Rectron ESD, you will receive a link which takes to Office.com where you affiliate the software to your Microsoft Live ID and you will be able to download the software in a matter of minutes. Computer crashes or stolen, with ESD you can retrieve your Office Suit by just signing on to Office.com with your Microsoft Live ID and install the same software on another machine. We offer a delivery lead time of 10 minutes for our Terms customers and a delivery lead time of 30 minutes for all the cash customers. On ESD you will get Windows 10 and the full Office suite to Office 365, including: The product key is then securely delivered directly to your email address, ready to be installed. The software is tied to your Microsoft Live ID, which means that you’ll also never have to keep another product key and can simply access the software from your Live account. The ability Rectron gives you to download your software online means you spend less money and time on unnecessary processes to equip your device with what it needs to get the job done. For more information visit the Rectron ESD website. www.rectron.co.za This article was published in partnership with Rectron.