Whether you are an IT- professional, administrator, engineer or developer, cloud- and mobile technologies are transforming the way business works and consequently, your role as well. In the past, IT professionals opted for the most suitable applications as well as online services that a company’s staff must use and they were responsible for deploying these within the organisation. Employees then simply had to learn how to use and integrate these in their daily tasks and procedures. In the mobile-first, cloud-first era, technology trends such as cloud computing, IoT, and big data analytics has enabled staff to work from anywhere, anytime, utilising any device or platform, to do more using fewer on premises company resources. Furthermore, various business trends like the consumerisation of IT, BYOD, and COPE has left employees feeling more empowered to use their personal devices for work, and resulted in departments, teams, and even individual users requesting access to select cloud-based services or apps that will make them more productive in their specific jobs and roles within the business. Luckily, the majority of these apps and services are cloud-based and require little effort on the part of IT beyond acquiring the service and implementing it within the specific department or team. For the IT professional, this means that they have access to additional time to expand upon their skillsets and add additional value to their service offerings to the business. This all culminates in an opportunity for the role of the IT professional to transform, to allow for continued business progress. In order for IT pros to remain relevant, they need to hone and update their current skills as well as add a range of new ones to become a cloud professional, application develop or even a universal communications expert for instance. This will enable them to remain relevant, valuable team members who are able to add additional value for the business in various ways; such as ideation for better business productivity, extended customer offerings- helping to drive business growth, or helping to stave off challenges from more forward-thinking competitors and disruption. Go to the TechSummit 2016 webpage to join the transformation journey. This article was published in partnership with Microsoft.