Are your HP printers performing at optimal levels? If your office machines are not up to speed and possibly breaking down and causing too much downtime and inconveniences, then it is time to invest in a professional service that will repair HP printers for your business with a high level of efficiency and reliability. Whether your HP Commercial LaserJet Printers is in or out of warranty, Introstat is certified and qualified to repair it. This professional team of printer repairs and maintenance specialists can handle your repairs and servicing jobs with reliability and attention to detail. Introstat uses genuine and high-quality factory-approved parts that will extend the life of your printers and boost their performance. As an HP Service Delivery Partner, Introstat can carry out an in-warranty repair on HP’s behalf if your machine is in its warranty or has an extended warranty. However, if your HP printer is no longer covered by its standard warranty, Introstat’s service options will minimise your downtime and ensure your peace of mind. Introstat, a leader in the IT industry for the past 25 years, specialises in Printing and IT Solution needs. With a national distribution network and a dedicated and qualified sales force, Introstat can offer the best all-round printing and IT solution for your business. Introstat is also a Platinum Supplies Partner, and holds specialisations in all of the following with HP: As a trusted and reliable expert to repair HP printers, Introstat is fully trained and certified to meet the industry’s most challenging service needs. HP describes Introstat as “a Service Specialist that stands out from the crowd, supporting the IT industry’s real-time business needs, and offering the broadest portfolio of end-to-end solutions and services to help customers manage and transform their IT environment.” Visit www.introstat.co.za for more information. You can also phone 011 723 7511 to log a call or email info@introstat.co.za. This article was published in partnership with Introstat.