Showmax has some of the top HBO shows available to stream online or download via the smartphone and tablet apps for Android and iOS. This month ShowMax has launched the Best of HBO Collection featuring some of the top series and series from the American network. Binge-watch shows like Game of Thrones, Big Love, Ballers,Veep, True Blood and Silicon Valley, among others.  These are some of the best HBO shows that ShowMax has available right now: Rotten Tomatoes rating 98%  This comedy series follows the misadventures of introverted computer programmer Richard and his brainy friends as they attempt to strike it rich in a high-tech gold rush. Watch now » Rotten Tomatoes rating: 97%  Widely regarded as the greatest TV series of all time. Don’t miss a single episode of this classic mob drama – or you’ll regret it. Watch now » Rotten Tomatoes rating: 95%  This riveting series centers around two powerful families — kings and queens, knights and renegades, liars and honest men — playing a deadly game for control of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros, and to sit atop the Iron Throne. Watch now » Rotten Tomatoes rating: 94%  Robert Durst had it all: born into a wealthy family, he went on to build a hugely successful career in real estate and became a true mogul worth over US$100 million. But his past may hide something darker. In 2015 Durst was arrested for the murder of a close friend in 2000. He was also arrested, but acquitted, for the 2001 murder of his neighbour. On top of that, it turns out his wife disappeared in 1982. What is the story behind these strange unsolved crimes? Is Durst guilty? This HBO documentary explores the story with new interviews and evidence. Watch now » Rotten Tomatoes rating: 90%  Veep follows the new VP, Selina Meyer, as she puts out political fires, juggles her public schedule and private life, and does everything within her limited powers to improve her dysfunctional relationship with the chief executive. Rotten Tomatoes Rating: 87%  Luck is centered around characters tied to the same horse-racing track, following Chester “Ace” Bernstein who after spending three years in prison, is determined to get his vengeance on the colleagues who betrayed him. Watch now » Rotten Tomatoes rating: 85%  Henrickson seems like a typical suburban husband and father, except for the fact that he has three wives, nine kids and three homes to maintain while overseeing his casino business, fulfilling his political interests and attempting to reconnect with his fundamentalist relatives. Watch now » Rotten Tomatoes Rating: 80%  Ballers follows former football superstar Spencer Strasmore as he gets his life on track in retirement while mentoring other current and former players through the business of football in Miami. Rotten Tomatoes rating: 70%  Louisiana waitress Sookie Stackhouse already is viewed as an oddball by her friends and neighbours, since she can read the minds of those around her, and when she falls for Bill Compton, a 173-year-old vampire her situation gets even worse. Watch now » ShowMax allows you to watch your favourite shows anywhere with no interruptions and will cost you R99pm. Cancel any time. Other HBO titles on ShowMax include Girls, Carnivale, Boardwalk Empire, Americans in Bed, Hello Ladies, Sex and the City and the Vagine Monologues. Want to try before you buy? Check out the 14-day free trial on the Showmax website. This article was published in partnership with Showmax.