2018 will see new students joining the leagues of the Top Ranking Universities in South Africa. While many will stay on their university’s campus, students often need to travel and may also take up a part-time job while they are studying – which means it might be time to go car shopping. Students – and their parents – often have tight budgets however, and if they choose to invest in a set of wheels, it needs to be affordable, reliable, and safe. When choosing a student car, the cost of Car Insurance is also a critical factor to consider – making the upfront price of the car even more important. To help prospective car owners out, we have put together a list of the most popular cars under R200,000, according to November 2017 statistics from Naamsa.  The Polo Vivo comes with features such as air-conditioning, power steering, and a radio with a CD front-loader and USB connection, as well as modern safety features like a driver-side airbag.  Hailing from a budget range, the Toyota Etios 1.5 Sprint boasts features that actually hold up to some of Toyota’s more premium offerings. The Etios Sprint variant has got an updated, modern design, performs well, and comes with electric windows, a central locking system, and an integrated audio unit.  The Renault Kwid doesn’t just have an elegant curb appeal; under the sleek exterior you will find some high-tech features such as electric power steering, an onboard trip computer, and auto on/off cabin lighting that make for a comfortable drive.  The new Kia Picanto is one of the most attractive and offers some new experiences in terms of design, practicality, and performance. These include projector headlights with LED elements, a multifunction steering wheel, electric windows, electrically adjustable and folding mirrors, a height-adjustable driver’s seat, and air conditioning. It offers a refined driver’s experience.  From a design perspective and from a technology viewpoint, the Ford Figo Hatch 1.5 Ambiente should tick all the boxes of the budget conscious buyer, with features such as power steering, an onboard computer, steering column adjustment, a high level third brake light, a USB port, and air conditioning. This article was published in partnership with Hippo.co.za.