Gearbest is offering the REXSO Explorer K action camera for only $79.99 in its latest flash sale. To qualify for the discount, use the coupon code GBELEKXX when checking out.The sale is limited to 100 units and ends on 4 January 2018. The REXSO Explorer K is a 4K action camera that is waterproof up to 30m without housing. It features a Huawei HiSilicon HI3559 chipset, integrates an advanced image signal processor, and supports the RAW format. The camera is also equipped with a six-axis gyroscope for better image stabilisation, and it detects real-time motion and movement compensation. Gearbest is also offering discounts on a wide range of tech, includingremote-controlled quadcopters, brushless FPV racers, remote-controlled cars, and MJX bugs. Get 20% off all remote-controlled quadcopters when using the coupon: RCSANTA20 when checking out, limited to the first 300 units.  This offer includes the SIMTOO Dragonfly Drone Pro, which is as big as two books when folded and weighs 1.2kgs. It offers transmitter-free operation using an 8-channel smart GPS watch. It is also capable of 4K aerial photography, featuring a 16MP camera, 170-degree FOV, 3-axis gimbal, and level 4-6 wind resistance. Get 20% off all Brushless FPV Racers when using the coupon: RCSANTA20 when checking out, limited to the first 300 units.  Included in this deal is the HolybroKopis 1 Brushless FPV Racing Drone, which has a Stretch-X 3K carbon fibre frame and a 5mm ultra thick chassis. Its Kakute F4 AIO flight controller and BLHeli-32 30A ESC work with the powerful T-MOTOR AIR40 for improved acceleration, while theRunCam Swift Mini 600TVL CCD camera produces high image quality in various conditions–and has a 150-degree FOV with 0 to 90-degree adjustable camera tilt. Get 19% off all remote-controlled cars when using the coupon: CARSANTA19 when checking out, limited to the first 300 units.  The deal includes the JJRC Q39 Highlander 1:12 4WD RC Desert Truck, a 4WD brushed RC desert truck equipped with high-torque servo. The front and rear differential are placed up and down respectively, and it features four independent shock absorbers. Its 19g servo generates 1kg torque for acceleration and climbing performance, and it has a 2.4GHz proportional control system. Get 30% off all MJX Bugs quadcopters when using the coupon: MJX30OFF when checking out, limited to the first 300 units.  Included in the deal is the MJX B3 Bugs 3 RC Quadcopter that is customisable and comes with a bracket that fits various sports cameras. It features a two-way 2.4GHz radio system, has an 1,800mAh high-capacity battery, and 300-500m control distance. The nylon-fibre airframe withstands impactwell and protects the internalelectronic components, while separate ESCs have protective programs preventingthe motor locking and overheating. Gearbest is also offering customers a chance to receive even greater discounts with a smartphone purchase from Gearbest. To qualify, simply like the @ZAGadgetReviews Facebook page. If you are a first-time buyer and need assistance with your purchase, you can find Gearbest’s South African-based partner on the MyBroadband Forum as GearBestZA. For more information, visit the Gearbest website. This article was published in partnership with Gearbest.