While it’s no secret that cutting-edge technology of the calibre Apple offers tends to be on the pricey side, it’s an investment that pays off as the lifetime cost of a Mac is significantly less than that of a Windows PC. “However, sometimes the initial cash outlay is still more than one can afford in one go,” said Gaynor MacArthur, Sales Director at Apple Premium Reseller Digicape. Financing is an affordable way of purchasing a device, as customers can pay it off over a predetermined period in smaller monthly instalments. However, there are those who are nervous of financing, as they believe the process to be time-consuming and admin-heavy, or are simply nervous of the fine print. “Fortunately, the National Credit Act has been designed to protect consumers from purchasing something they cannot afford, and demands that financial service providers offer product terms that are simple, transparent, and easy to understand,” says MacArthur. Consumers looking to invest in a new iPhone, iPad, Mac, Apple Watch, accessories, and/or software can choose to either trade in their pre-loved devices against the purchase price of a new one, upgrade to a Vodacom contract, or finance the device over a fixed period by applying for an online credit facility through one of Digicape’s finance partners. “These online credit facilities are expressly designed to be simple, low-on-admin, convenient, and affordable, taking the complexity and tediousness out of finance application,” said MacArthur. Online credit providers, such as Mobicred and FinYou, offer an affordable, easy way to finance a new device. These financing options are available exclusively for online purchases and can be used to purchase products from the Digicape online store. This option is ideal for you if you are: Mobicred offers a revolving “wallet”, meaning that once a certain amount of the total outstanding has been repaid, the credit once again becomes available. The wallet can also be used across multiple online vendors. The table below details several of the financing options currently available through Mobicred and Digicape. The above is Mobicred indicative monthly pricing for 12 months at 20.75% pa, excluding the monthly fee and a once-off account initiation fee. Once-off account initiation fee to be refunded. Offer ends on 31 December 2017. It is also simple to apply for financing through an existing service provider, such as Vodacom, as they will already have a user profile loaded for customers. This option is ideal for you if you: If a Digicape customer is not already an existing Vodacom customer, the vetting process is still relatively quick, taking only 24-72 hours on average. Digicape also offers a trade-in option, where customers can trade in their old Apple device, and the value of the device is deducted from the cost of their new Apple purchase. Digicape is also one of the few resellers that allow customers to trade in multiple Apple devices, with the accumulated value offset against the new purchase – making the latest upgrade far more affordable. For more information on the financing options available, visit: https://www.digicape.co.za/finance Terms & Conditions apply for trade-in options. This article was published in partnership with Digicape.