“The price of success is hard work, dedication to the job at hand and the determination that whether we win or lose, we have applied the best of ourselves to the task at hand.” — Vince Lombardi When 2017 came knocking, ODEK certainly did not expect that growth that we were gifted with. Regardless, we tackled all challenges head on looking for the best solution for all involved. Looking back,  the ODEK Team can proudly say: “We made it together.” ODEK Customer Engagement is an Information and Communication Technology company based in Midrand, South Africa that aims to deliver exceptional omnichannel experience driven by innovation and a passion for change. ODEK had a busy but very successful year pioneering new technology, engaging employees in all sorts of physical activities, and generally just exploring new frontiers. Here is a taste of what ODEK got up to in 2017.  ODEK kicked of the year with a ‘light’ 5.6km run supporting the JP Morgan foundation in their Annual Corporate run where all proceeds are donated to local Non-Profit Organisations.  Exciting times came when ODEK launched their new website in light of the 2017 MyBroadband Cloud, Hosting and Security Conference. ODEK had a blast choosing and working through the design. My Broadband Cloud, Hosting and Security Conference 2017  ODEK and Genesys teamed up at the 2017 MyBroadband Cloud Conference with a Title Sponsorship. The conference attracted a record number of delegates, with 1,900 IT executives and decision makers attending the event.  At the conference, Gert Swart, ODEK CEO, took to the stage to address delegates and discussed ODEK’s range of products and services.  ODEK attended the G- Summit in Belgium with one of our customers and the Genesys team in June. The Genesys G-Summit global event series brings together thought leaders and Genesys customers to collectively share best practices and gain insights into the latest CX market trends.  ODEK had exponential professional growth with numerous Customers joining our cloud platform and successful go-lives. ODEK is still making ground breaking records in their cloud and speech analytics division.  ODEK welcomed numerous new members to their team and continues to nurture career and personal growth.  In August, ODEK had yet another fun, but physical team building at Acrobranch – a treetop experience offering a unique adventure as you move from tree to tree in lush, green forests.   Gert Swart was featured on the cover of the MyBroadband Q3 Magazine along with an article about developing innovative leaders for tomorrow.  In August, ODEK also attended the CEM Conference in Cape Town where our Partner, Genesys, were one of the main sponsors.  In October, ODEK exhibited at the MyBroadband Conference 2017, which attracted 3,500 IT professionals and executives. ODEK celebrated their year with the perfect send off at Table 29 in Midrand, they celebrated all their successes and welcomed the new year with all its challenges. Thanks to its ever-growing customer support, ODEK out grew its offices yet again and had to move to something a bit more spacious and accommodating for its growing team. ODEK thanks all its customers for their support, and wishes everyone a good end to the year as well as a great start to 2018. During the festive season, however, don’t let your call centre go into the holiday mode – trust ODEK to keep things running for you 24/7/365. Confirm how many years ODEK has been in business and visit the ODEK website to submit your answer through “Contact Us”, and stand a chance to win a ODEK hamper. This article was published in partnership with ODEK.