Rectron recommends Microsoft Software – Contact details: 011 203 1000  www.rectron.co.za Microsoft ESD, the electronic software delivery solution delivered by Rectron, equips your device with what it needs to get the job done in no time. Microsoft ESD covers you from Windows 10 Pro and Home and Office suite to Office 365, and together with the implementation of Rectron’s API integration, you can start processing orders automatically. Microsoft’s ESD is the smart, easy, and fast way to get the software you need online by downloading a software product key that is delivered directly to your device securely and instantly. Instead of waiting around for a box in the post or standing in queues at retail stores you can simply download the solution from Rectron in three easy steps. All you have to do is place an order online with sales@rectron.co.za, after which you will receive a downloadable link and activation key via email. With this, you can then download your Microsoft ESD software from wherever you are and use all your office applications straight away. With the full Microsoft suite from Rectron, you can transform your business seamlessly, ensure an equipped workforce, and offer your customers improved customer experience. Through the solution, resellers can now avoid inventory and other costs that come with the selling of physical goods and are free of physical stock. The problem of stale stock will also be eliminated, as only the latest – and most in-demand – products are available for sale via ESD. After you’ve downloaded your full suite, you will want to get started, and sooner or later more questions will pop-up. To get started you will need to do some installations, retrieval your license for multiple purposes, and more. Naturally, these are processes that come with acquiring new software. However, Rectron ESD makes it simple. Everything you need to know to make the most of your software and to get started is listed below. First off, getting your license may seem like a daunting task and your experience tells you it may take weeks, however, ESD allows you to get your key within 30 minutes or less. In the event of losing your hardware, you will need to retrieve your license. This can be done through your Microsoft account as it is tied up to that account. For companies who need access to multiple employees, there are a few options to choose from. With O365 you can only have one license under each account, whereas with other ESD offerings you may have up to 25 licenses under the same account. In an audit it might be required to provide Microsoft with proof of ownership, to access your license simply log in to your Microsoft account as the license is tied up to it. Few people use one machine over the span of two years and might need to transfer software. To transfer your software from one device to another with the media, you need to sign into your Microsoft Account on the new machine and click install. To get started with installations and using your software, you will need a Microsoft Live ID. However, there is an option to create an account if you don’t have one yet. Everyone doesn’t have access to an internet connection and might prefer installing software offline. For this, you will need an offline image of the software. Otherwise, with ESD you will have to download the software For more information, visit the Rectron website. 