Have you ever misspelled a word whilst searching for something on the web but got directed to the correct results anyway? Or recently saw more posts on Facebook about Donald Trump because last week you liked a few articles posted or just stopped to read the headline before scrolling further and now news on him is everywhere in your news feed? This is you experiencing basic Machine Learning (ML) in everyday life. Machine Learning (ML) examines large amounts of data looking for patterns, then generates code that lets you recognize those patterns in new data. Your applications can use this generated code to make better predictions. In the past, human work was more preferred than computer work cause after all, humans could look at all the angles and make informed decisions, whereas computers could not. Entering in to ML today, it might be more useful than a human in shaping customer experience. ML is a major ordeal and a portion of the greatest names in big business innovation are competing over it. It isn’t just another innovation – it is entirely four decades old – yet now utilizing it isn’t confined to supercomputers, because of continuous progressions and the way in which a portion of the huge players are endeavouring to market it. If your company isn’t using machine learning to detect anomalies, recommend products, or predict customer churn and attrition, you will start doing it soon. The global community is going to witness a tremendous growth of smart apps, digital assistants, and main-stream use of AI. ML enables data-driven decision systems to continuously learn from new data and adapt itself to deliver “reliable and repeatable” results. This is an integral part and critical ingredient in building intelligent applications, and as such, ML will proliferate the mobile market and enter the territories of drones and self-driving cars. ML has been around for years, it has been at the forefront of how many organisations do day-to-day business. But is ML slowly becoming second-string to new technology OR dying out completely? Far from it, in fact, in the not so distant future, ML might lead the understanding of Neural Networks. Natural Language Processing (NLP) will start to make sense, deeper personalisation, collaborative learning will emerge, reinforcement learning will gain widespread industry adoption, and this will cause ML to be embedded everywhere. Where various industry experts believe it Machine Learning is headed: With the inherent capability to learn from current data, Machine Learning can help you overcome challenges facing your business, no matter the demand variations, and enable you to deliver a better experience for your customers. As a business, these things mean it’s possible to quickly and automatically produce models that can analyse bigger, more complex data and deliver faster, more accurate results – even on a very large scale. And by building precise models, an organization has a better chance of identifying profitable opportunities or avoiding unknown risks. Relying on your ICT Company to assist you in becoming a well-established ML Business expert, has never been more important. That is why it is vital that choose the correct technology partner if you are looking to enhance your customer experience and be world known for reliability and efficiency. With ODEK Customer Engagement you are assured of a business partner that has a proven track record of setting new standards for engagement industry. ODEK also specialises in providing one-stop hosted solutions for the modern enterprise set. Through strategic partnerships, best in class solution accredited staff and effective project management principles, ODEK Customer Engagement gives your business access to leading experts in all infrastructure disciplines and is innovative, focused and can deploy the latest engagement tools, enabling your readiness to the whole new world that is fast approaching. For more information on ODEK Customer Engagement:  This article was published in partnership with ODEK.