The value of good advice when it comes to managing your finances cannot be emphasised enough, even more so when you take into consideration the looming deadline that is the end of the financial year. This not only means a possible shift in financial policies, but also means a possible end to the tax concessions currently in place. Tax concessions that, if managed correctly, can make a huge difference in the way you save your money and how much you get out of it in terms of the amount of interest you earn and the amount of tax you pay. This makes it the opportune time to speak to the professionally trained advisers at Alexander Forbes. We can offer you the best, relevant and holistic advice you need to make important decisions to put you and your family in the best financial position possible. “Many people underestimate the value of getting financial advice from a qualified, professional financial adviser”, says Michael Kirkpatrick, Alexander Forbes Business & Distribution Enablement specialist. “Financial advisers are experts in their field and have dedicated their careers to helping others reach their financial goals.” One of the routes to making your money go further is opening or topping up your Tax-Free Savings Account to the maximum allowed R30 000 a year with Alexander Forbes. The account allows you to save money while you pay no tax at all on the interest you earn which, in turn, means that you have more money to use on the things that really matter. These tax concessions also offer you a range of other opportunities to help you build your wealth both locally and abroad. With help from our experts at Alexander Forbes, investing your money offshore is a breeze. Offshore investments will help you save your money in a different currency, freeing you from the unpredictability of the ever-changing exchange rate. Offshore investments also give you access to many different economies, markets and companies that are either unavailable or difficult to access locally, as well as letting you diversify your portfolio and spread your risk. Getting access to further financial expertise is but one of the many advantages of calling on the services of Alexander Forbes. So why wait? Contact us today and we’ll get you on your way to securing your financial future. Alexander Forbes, speak to us today and thank us later. This article was published in partnership with Alexander Forbes.