Today the internet had become the biggest part in communication, in business and socializing. If we look back 20 years ago, and compare it with today how we communicate and do business, most people will agree it has made life easier in most aspects. All businesses today make use of at least one type of Internet media to do business or to communicate with their clients or suppliers. Henk Olivier, Managing Director of Ozone Information Technology solutions, classifies information technology into two segments: segment one internal network security, and segment two external network security. Many enterprises think if they have a firewall for the internet connection they are secure against IT threats. But what about your internal business threats? Employees may be downloading or surfing unsolicited material and infecting your network with spyware, viruses or ransom-ware. Or employees may be stealing intellectual property, selling it to your opposition, or stealing your customer base to use in their next job opportunity as clients. These are large risks especially to medium and large enterprise companies with many employees. The question is, how do I keep utilizing technology in my business without compromising employee productivity due to internet surfing and social media, or business security threats? Statistics today show that the average time a person between the age of 18 – 34 spend on social media is around 3 hours per day. The biggest problem for businesses is to provide employees with all the tools they need in the workplace, but also to control employees while they are using those tools. From 15 years’ experience in information technology security solutions, Henk Olivier has seen that you need to create controlled structures and processes in businesses to protect the business and to improve productivity. You need to provide the employees the tools, but also have fences and limits when they are using the tools. There are many software and hardware packages today monitoring and managing internal and external business networks and managing and monitoring employees in the workplace. Where do I start? If you are a business that is not large enough to have its own internal IT department, make sure you consult a company with a good reputation. And always call references and call companies in the same industry. Who can I trust? If you are a SME, make sure that the company who is going to provide your IT security is aware of the company’s IT risks and normal operational risks in the business. Don’t use a company that cannot provide you with a customer signed agreement, and never use a company that just works on verbal negotiations, agreements or solutions. How will I know it is best for my business/network? Unfortunately, the only way to know if it is the best solution for your business is if you don’t have any IT security breaches. Always consult more than one provider – this is especially for businesses with internal IT departments. Get an external company to audit your internal and external IT security state. When do I outsource, or when do I use internal support staff? There are many factors that can contribute to this decision. If it comes to IT security, use a company that specializes in IT security and cyber security. For more information, visit the Ozone website. This article was published in partnership with Ozone.