So, what does this VR mean for customer service? Consider the difficulties encountered today when a customer needs technical help. Troubleshooting is ungainly at best over the phone, chat, or email. Representatives struggle daily to try and figure out what the customer is relying on when there is a problem, which may not be accurate given that they do not have enough technical experience. This process is often slow and done in a step-by-step manner that may be difficult for the customer to understand and follow. It is equally difficult for the representative to determine if the customer has properly followed the steps indicated. Representatives can explain the steps to the customer but they cannot be sure that customers will follow it through. Interaction through VR would solve this problem. By having the customer share what they are seeing and doing with the representative as if they were in the customer’s shoes allows them to better guide a customer through the process. Virtual Reality (VR) can be applied to business practices in many ways, from a more immersive way to train new employees to interact with customers on an entirely new level. Essentially, VR is changing the way we communicate experience and the increase it will have on people’s ability to telecommute and work together across national boundaries is very clear. With customer experience at the core of business growth, you can’t afford to be negligent in your performance. This means that you even need to be at the top of your game with the technology you use, and with virtual technology, virtual call centres can be linked to an entire virtual experience. VR’s potential stretches as far as getting your team to log in into a virtual call centre and interact with an online team that feels close by. Your entire team can log into the same interface, use the same phone systems, access the same powerful features, work on the same campaigns and view everything in real time no matter their location. This also means they will be primed and ready for the next wave of Cloud innovations. It may seem like a burden if you haven’t yet made the transition to a lightweight virtual call centre, but it is far easier than you think. In customer service enterprises, you need to know how to map out your customer journey in order to find the right touchpoints to focus on. ODEK Customer Engagement solutions help you to monitor your customers’ journey simply and effectively. With a specialised focus on enterprise multimedia contact centres and enterprise IP telephony, ODEK Customer Engagement is offering flexible hosted solution. This will allow you to get to market faster, while you improve your customer’s journey by increasing personalisation, delivering consistent and connected customer experiences across channels and touch points or meeting your customers’ specific channel preferences, such as mobile. By combining the Cloud with VR, virtual reality becomes more affordable, scalable and it can support multi-user environment as well. In the future, Cloud is going to play a huge role in virtual reality. You can achieve these, and accelerate Time to Value and New Revenue with a full spectrum of Cloud Services, unleashing the power of exceptional Customer Experiences. For more information visit the ODEK website. This article was published in partnership with ODEK.