Sage, the market and technology leader for integrated accounting, payroll & HR, and payment systems, will welcome over 1000 entrepreneurs, Small & Medium Business owners and Sage Business Partners from around Africa and Middle East at the Sage Summit Tour in South Africa. The event takes place at the Sandton Convention Centre, Johannesburg from 7-9 March. Sage Summit Tour was traditionally an annual event held in the US, but this year, Sage is bringing its personalised and interactive experience to cities and business builders around the world. Sage partners and customers will gather in Johannesburg to learn about new technologies, digital transformation and the future of work. Top speakers, including Sage CEO Stephen Kelly, will share insights about how entrepreneurs can energise the success of their businesses. Sage is expected to unveil new products, with Kelly using his keynote speech to announce new tools, technologies and partnerships. He will also unveil Sage’s plans to use the Sage Foundation Enterprise Fund to change the lives of young people, women and military veterans around the region. Joining Stephen Kelly are: Bringing together Sage’s customers, partners, and colleagues, the Sage Summit Tour is designed to encourage learning and networking, while celebrating the power of the global entrepreneurial business community. Anton van Heerden, Managing Director and Executive Vice President, Africa & Middle East at Sage said: “During Sage Summit, Johannesburg becomes the hub for the region’s entrepreneurs. “This community is the most powerful driver of economic prosperity in the Africa and Middle East’s economy, creating more than two thirds of all jobs. We will celebrate these business builders, support them with the technology of tomorrow and seek to give them a voice on the world stage.” Sage Summit is being supported by AccTech Systems, Norming, and iVend Retail as gold sponsors; silver sponsors are Peresoft Software, Moditar, Technisoft, AutoSimply, Flowgear, OrgChart Hosting and Orchid Systems. To learn more about Sage’s thinking and the sort of insights to expect at the Sage Summit Tour, check out Invisible Admin: Conversations about the future of work – a series of podcasts from Sage and Inquisition. This article was published in partnership with Sage.