Jacques Allison, an Altech Enterprise Solutions network engineer, recently became the first Huawei Certified Internetwork Expert (HCIE) in routing and switching in Huawei’s African region. It is another milestone in Altron’s relationship with the leading, global ICT solutions provider. Altech Enterprise Solutions is a dedicated Huawei ICT solutions provider. Implementing and supporting Huawei solutions is the operation’s sole focus. According to national sales manager Caroline Beswick, Altech Enterprise Solutions’ vision is to be the leading preferred and trusted Huawei partner in South Africa with a reputation for solution design, integration skills and service delivery. “In order to achieve this, we have to be able to design and implement the right solutions for our customers, something we can only do if we have the highest level of skills available,” she says. For this reason, Altech Enterprise Solutions is busy certifying its teams in all Huawei disciplines, from sales through to technical pre-sales and engineering in IP, IT, UC&C to network energy and data centres. It is as part of this process that Jacques Allison became the first network engineer in Huawei’s African region to achieve HCIE certification in routing and switching. “By the end of this year, around 100 of our sales people and engineers would have been through Huawei certified training of one sort or another,” says Caroline. She points out that, in addition to the certification, it is extremely important that the engineers gain hands-on experience. “It is this practical, in-the-field experience that really turns them into experts. It’s where they learn the exceptions to the rules and how to interoperate with other technologies.” Altech Enterprise Solutions believes that training and skills transfer should extend to its customers’ engineers in order to develop the general Huawei skills base in South Africa. As such, the operation invests heavily in developing its customers’ engineers, as well engineers working for some of its SME partners. “Certification means that we have the capability to deliver; it adds credibility to our offering and instills confidence in our customers that we have the expertise, skills and knowledge to deliver on their requirements,” concludes Caroline.  Jacques Allison is a pre-sales engineer and network architect at Altech Enterprise Solutions. He describes his role as providing pre-sales design support for the Huawei networking, data centre, unified communications and collaboration solutions. In addition, he is the technical lead and architect for new large-scale network designs, which include Huawei products to provide DWDM, MPLS VPN, VoIP/IMS, Internet, public Wi-Fi, and related services. He is also responsible for the functional and technical elements of requests for information and requests for proposals, and does product and white board presentations to current and prospective customers. You are the first HCIE-certified engineer in the Africa region, and one of only a handful outside of China*. What doors does it open for you? The certification will benefit my personal and professional relationship with Huawei. For one thing, it will give me more access to the Huawei engineers when it comes to general support on new solution designs. Getting the certification also gives me opportunities to mentor other candidates in preparation for the HCIE lab exam. My plan is to become a local lab interviewer. *According to Huawei, at the end of 2015 there were 1 064 HCIEs globally; 80% of them in China. The starting point is on-the-job experience in large-scale networking design and support. In that regard, my career path has prepared me. As far as the practical lab session is concerned, I used Huawei’s virtual network simulation tool to help me prepare. You have to be very comfortable with command line configuration of a complex network consisting of multiple interconnected routers and switches. Many hours of practice are necessary, as you have to be able to quickly troubleshoot simple problems in the lab environment. The training material, videos and mock exams on the Huawei website was also most useful. I found the Huawei product documentation to be essential when it came to finding practical examples of the configurations required in the lab. The two-week course that Nic Yap, a HCIE trainer from Singapore, presented here in South Africa was key in preparing for the exam. This article was published in partnership with Altron.