Pink Elephant introduces new software to their best of breed technology basket – FireScope Discovery and Dependency Mapping (DDM) Organisations that attempt to track IT service configuration through manual efforts still cannot keep up with the rapid pace of change and complexity. This outdated or inaccurate configuration knowledge puts organisations at risk of repeated – and expensive – service outages caused by configuration errors, and significant opportunities for increased efficiencies are lost. FireScope (DDM) enables organisations to clearly understand IT service topology from the user experience down to the application, virtual infrastructure and network, and continually tracks changes as they happen. FireScope DDM effectively eliminate unknowns before the fan is struck, using real-time dependency discovery that can eliminate the fog of war in today’s constantly changing datacenter. It centralises everything to a single source of truth as it discovers service-endpoints and their dependencies by their network connectivityThe toolset finds devices, and storage and establishes the relationship between them and should not to be confused with a standard inventory tool. It then federates with the CMDB, with continual change monitoring to adapt as service topologies evolve. For simplified incident and problem management, more accurate and deeper service configuration knowledge enables organisations to radically reduce the time it takes to identify, trace and respond to issues that are impacting the business and your users. With FireScope DDM, change-planning is transformed by automated dependency discovery. This takes the guess work out of measuring the potential impact of a proposed change, and enables avoiding re-work or outages caused by mis-configuration. Also, this cloud-based solution currently fully integrates with Cherwell Service Management and requires significantly less effort, cost and time when compared to legacy Application Discovery and Dependency Mapping tools. “Imagine what you could achieve if your CMDB was service aware, always up to date and required no effort to keep up – that’s the power of FireScope Discovery and Dependency Mapping,” says Pink Elephant. For more information visit the Pink Elephant website. This article was published in partnership with Pink Elephant.