Euphoria continues to grow from strength to strength, in just 6 years Euphoria Telecom has doubled its customer-base year-on-year, approaching 2000 business customers nationwide. Staying ahead of the technology curve is one reason businesses are choosing to switch to Euphoria… but this is not the only reason Euphoria‘s customers remain loyal to the brand. Euphoria recently contacted its customers to find out exactly why they chose to move to Euphoria and what it is about Euphoria that makes them loyal customers. Euphoria asked their customers why they chose to move to Euphoria, here are their unadulterated answers: “I do not want to pay for services I do not use, so a scalable billing structure is important. Reliable service and fast-on-the-guns when logging a support call. The amount of data and access to self-help stuff on the dashboard was the deal maker!”- Ergon Quest. “Word of mouth – and I have never looked back.” – Polifilm SA. “Breadth of features. Easy customisation and configuration.” – Urbanvest Apple. “More than 50% cost reduction and the ease of managing the system ourselves.” – South African Chefs Association. “Your great rates, excellent service and reliability, excellent assistance and quick turn-around times but especially the awesome staff!” – True North Developments (Pty) Ltd. Euphoria asked their customers for feedback and suggestions on the product and service, here are their unadulterated answers: “We have burnt our fingers a number of times with previous systems and have been pedantic with the details. The team have been extremely patient and supportive, which shows great character and we look forward to a long standing relationship going forward.” – Barker Insurance Brokers. “Would be great if we were able to set call limits per extension” – Take Out Express. “Euphoria has got to be the friendliest and nicest company to deal with and has the best call centre ever. The service we receive is so efficient and everyone I have had dealings with, have been fantastic and friendly. Any problems that we have had or that have been picked up on your side has been dealt with efficiently.” – Quantum Financial Planning. “Technical support staff is absolutely fabulous. Always helpful and willing to go the extra mile. A fountain of knowledge. Always looking for ways to make my Euphoria experience a good one.” – Capsol. “The limitations of my current handset system was not clarified to me at start up.  I would likely have chosen the bigger system early on.” – OneTwoSix. “Your sales person was incredible. Patient, adaptable and prompt. It was the big reason I chose Euphoria over the competition. Your competition had a sales force trained to sell, but with little content knowledge and little ability to understand what our needs were and actually sell to them.” – BGR. “Reduce the cost of outgoing calls. Add some new voices to the auto answering service.” – 3byTwo Financial Planning. Apart from a fantastic product, Euphoria is known for its exceptional service and dedication to delivering “Better Communication for Work”. Learn more about transforming your business at www.euphoria.co.za. Euphoria Telecom’s promise is “Better Communication for Work”, according to their customers they have delivered on this promise. Get in touch with Euphoria to find out more about making the switch. This article was published in partnership with Euphoria Telecoms.