As the popular saying goes, “You cannot discover new oceans unless you have the courage to lose sight of the shore”. Indeed, innovation is the key to a successful future and it’s clear that this statement has never rung truer. Like many technologies burgeoning in the post-cloud era, the magic of Internet of Things (IoT) will only be unlocked at scale in 2017. Before diving into details, I’ll like to invite you to our webinar that will be taking place on 8th of March, and focusing on how IoT will change the CX. Register Now! The IoT is the biggest customer experience (CX) disruptor on the horizon right now. The data sourced from a few stray trackers and connected appliances might offer some helpful insights into personal activity patterns and home energy consumption. But far richer information will be gathered as the practice of embedding sensors in virtually every device, and even in natural objects, expands. We estimate that by 2020, there will be more than 40-billion “things” connected to the internet. If you’ve been paying attention, that’s the same year 5G is slated to come online — the perfect, low-energy standard for connecting all these endpoints to the internet and to each other. In the coming year we’ll see companies lay the groundwork for IoT by designing and delivering omnichannel customer experiences. In today’s fast pace environment, where the Internet of Things is rapidly becoming a reality, every aspect of consumers’ lives is shifting to become digital, it’s essential that the process of any type be quick, safe, secure and, perhaps above all else, be simple. We are at the centre of spearheading the drive towards a world where more organizations will explore hyper-personalization and behavioural tracking to engage customers across even more channels to deliver tailored and targeted content, products, and services. But unless there is a practical application in the present, an innovation is like the drawings in Leonardo da Vinci’s notebook – a “brilliant idea”. Hence, our combined efforts enable consumers to lead a more connected life – a life where their digital and physical worlds converge. This will be extremely important in industries such as financial services and department stores, where physical locations seize to exist. It is imperative to strike the right balance of outreach and personalization – providing too much of a targeted experience can be intrusive and turn a customer off, but providing a generic experience can feel underwhelming. Early industry adopters will begin using a single customer experience platform to mine data accrued from all points of engagement. This type of system will include self-service analytics, mobile analytics, and big data analytics. Analytics do provide the insights that brands are looking for, but it’s important to view contact centre analytics from a customer, agent, and organizational perspective. Other solutions attempting to manage customer experiences cannot work beyond a single interaction. They’re either trapped in a function (sales, marketing, and service) or a channel (voice, mobile, digital, and social) or worse both: in a channel in a function. These silos are where accountability disappears. In an era when consumers expect a seamless digital experience, it only takes one interruption to lose customer loyalty. At the end of the day, it is essential to device a multi-layered approach to reach the consumer and future technologies of 2017 will help create a strong foundation to address the conundrum – Technology arguably is still in its infancy stage and with a core objective to leverage on evolving trends and meet the progressing needs of our customers, it is very exciting to see what the future truly holds. We are responsible for changing the way the world does business, by providing technology that enables corporations to improve efficiency across all verticals. Our aim is being at the forefront of this change in 2017 to innovate for the present in order to successfully meet the challenges of tomorrow. Webinar: How is IOT affecting the Customer Experience? Frost & Sullivan recently conducted a survey of almost 500 customer experience leaders in Europe whereby almost two thirds of respondents agree that IoT will bring direct value to the customer experience. Watch this webinar to hear how CX leaders in Europe are turning the IOT concept into reality. Register Now! This article was published in partnership with Genesys.