When DJI announced the Mavic in 2016, they broke new ground in the drone industry in terms of size and functionality. With the new release of the Spark in 2017, DJI has pushed the boundaries of what is technologically possible yet again. The Spark is DJI’s smallest and most affordable drone to date; it comes in at under half the price of the popular Mavic Pro and less than a third of the price of the Phantom series. Due to this lower price point, the Spark isn’t as beefy specs wise as it’s two big brothers, but it definitely doesn’t fall short on features. It has a battery life of around 16 minutes, which is unprecedented for a drone this size, and forward and downward facing sensors that detect and avoid obstacles. A top speed of 50km/h combined with its small size makes this drone a little beast when it comes to quick maneuvers. The Spark also has a myriad of additional awesome features that give you the power to do incredible cinematic maneuvers with a touch of a button. Gesture controls allow you to channel your inner Jedi by moving the drone with your outstretched hand and active track makes tracking easier than ever. Functionality aside, the camera is one of the most important things when it comes to a drone. This is where the Spark is surprisingly impressive – its 1/2.3” CMOS sensor can take 12 MP stills and HD video. The quality of the Spark’s HD video is perfect for its target market and the 12MP stills are close to quality you’d get from the latest iPhone cameras. The Spark can even do ‘depth effect’ shots, similar to the iPhone 7 Plus, where a fake bokeh is created. The camera is also stabilized on a 2-axis gimbal, unlike any similar drone on the market. This means the Spark produces the smoothest video from all the drones of this size. Unfortunately, the settings for video and photos can’t be changed from default, which is something to note if this a must for you. The Spark can be controlled by a smartphone which gives it limited range, but a separate remote controller can be added which increases the potential range hugely. The tactile joysticks of the controller will also give you more control over the drone and will allow you to achieve more advanced shots. Of course, you can always just use the Spark’s autonomous flight modes and the drone will do all the hard work for you. The gesture control can be glitchy in its responsiveness at times, but for the most part it works well, even in badly lit conditions and its loads of fun to play with! The drone can launch from your hand and then follow your hand around in whatever direction you move it. It even responds to hand gestures to follow you or take a selfie and it can land safely on your palm. While the Spark isn’t as technically powerful as the Mavic and Phantom, it is great fun, affordable and easy to use, but still delivers awesome results when it comes to photos and videos – a welcome and needed addition to the DJI family. The Spark can be purchased at 36 weFix stores nationwide and online at weFix.co.za  This article was published in partnership with weFix.