South Africa is currently enjoying a big increase in the uptake of fibre-to-the-home (FTTH), which offer much higher speeds than ADSL. Fibre-to-the-home offers typical speeds of between 20Mbps and 1Gbps, which are much higher than ADSL which only offers speeds of up to 10Mbps. It is therefore no surprise that many ADSL users migrate to fibre, which offers higher speeds, lower latency, and a more stable connection. These much higher fibre-to-the-home speeds are great, but many home networks are not equipped to deal with speeds of 100Mbps or 1Gbps. A recent test by MyBroadband showed that the performance of low-end Wi-Fi routers, which are used in many homes, are not good enough to support faster FTTH speeds. So, while a 100Mbps fibre connection can support multiple HD streams, fast file downloads, and low latency for gaming, a cheap router can become a bandwidth bottleneck in your home. This means you may be wasting your money on a fast FTTH service if you do not invest in a quality, high-end router. This raises the question which routers are the best to support the new, high speed broadband connections which are available in South Africa. According to PCMag’s Readers’ Choice Awards, ASUS are the best option, thanks to its routers’ performance, ease of setup and product reliability. With an average overall satisfaction rating of 9.1, ASUS comfortably outperforming its closest competitors, Linksys, and TP-Link which scored 8.5 each. “This is the sixth straight year ASUS has won a Readers’ Choice Award for its home networking routers. No brand is more likely to be recommended than ASUS,” PCMag said. MyBroadband’s tests, which used an ASUS RT-AC5300 router, showed that users will enjoy near full-speed when using a high-end ASUS router. It is, however, not only about performance. All ASUS routers that have AiProtection can defend home networks against WannaCry and other ransomware. Consumers can benefit from ASUS’s extensive product line-up includes wireless routers, ADSL/ VDSL modem routers, LTE routers, range extenders and powerline extenders. To enhance the value proposition to clients, ASUS offers a 3-year warranty on all their networking products. It is also the only brand available in South Africa that ships everything from entry level (N300) products to high-end (AC5300) gaming routers. These routers are available from a wide range of stores in the country, but are currently available on promotion for a limited time at FirstShop. These offers include free national delivery. This article was published in partnership with ASUS.