It seems that Slaap Stad will soon have to be renamed Vroeg Opstaan Stad. According to the TomTom Global Traffic Index, SA’s most congested city – Cape Town has been listed as the 48th most congested city globally, and for the 4th year running. It’s a definitive move in the wrong direction as it was ranked 55th in the world in 2015. The R750 million project by the City of Cape Town announced in 2015 to decrease congestion has yet to foster any positive results. With daily commutes averaging out at a minimum of 2 hours during peak hours on a good day, the road ahead is bleak and long, particularly for commuters who work in Cape Town’s CBD. Frequent strikes and general unreliability of public transport leave little alternatives for those who use private vehicles to commute to work. It is no doubt that the most stressful, frustrating, and least productive time of one’s day is the minimum of two hours spent in traffic. Attempts at reducing congestion such as working flexi hours, carpooling and working from home are often impractical and have been ineffective as yet. Already viable solutions and cab-hailing apps, such a Taxify, exist to decrease drunk driving stats both in SA and worldwide. While it may not be the solution to eradicating the congestion problem, it can be a practical solution to make the congestion experience an almost pleasant one. App’s like Taxify offer convenience and peace of mind that few other modes of transport can rival. All you have to do is request a vehicle via the mobile app from the comfort and safety of your home. When you enter your destination address into the space provided and you’ll be furnished with an estimated price range before making the final booking. The name and picture of the driver that is closest to your location and has accepted your request will then display on your phone. The vehicle make, model and registration number are also clearly stated, and you can track their progress via the live map which counts down the minutes to their arrival. Parking is no longer a problem as you will be dropped off at the safest, closest drop off zone, if not directly outside your office door. You can also minimise the cost by sharing the ride with friends and colleagues. Now all contributors can sit back, relax and enjoy a stress-free drive into work, allowing an experienced driver to take the wheel. Taxify is giving MyBroadband readers R150 off their First Time Card ride exclusively – use voucher code: MBB07. The Taxify Driver App is available for download on iOS, Android, and Windows Phone. This article was published in partnership with Taxify.