Singularity University (SU), a global community using exponential technologies to tackle the world’s greatest challenges, has announced its first international summit on the African Continent. Corporate South Africa realises the importance of change and the influence of innovation and technology across all sectors and therefore the two-day SingularityU South Africa Summit (#futureproofAfrica) is being hosted in collaboration with Standard Bank, Global Partners Deloitte and key strategic partners, MTN and SAP, and is being produced by Mann Made Media. SingularityU South Africa Summit will convene exponential thought leaders, SU faculty, and organizations from around the world to provide participants with insights into emerging exponential technologies and how they can be used to create positive change and economic growth in the region. This unique summit taking place in Johannesburg will present a display of advanced technologies, extensive debate, and collaborative discussions, offering an exchange of ideas and existing best practices in the fields of healthcare, cyberspace, AI, robotics, big data, finance, and design. In addition to expert presentations, participants will explore questions ranging from trending technological changes across the globe, to their impact on industry growth and region-specific challenges. The Summit will also showcase African entrepreneurs and innovations in the interactive exhibitor halls. “Singularity University is proud to be working with Standard Bank and Mann Made Media to host this first-ever SingularityU South Africa Summit, and to connect with Africa’s leaders and organizations shaping the future,” remarked Rob Nail, Associate Founder and CEO of Singularity University. “South Africa represents a microcosm of the challenges facing humanity worldwide and is fast gaining a solid reputation as a global centre. Through this Summit, we hope to connect and inspire leaders in the region to effect global impact.” A complete list of speakers for SingularityU South Africa can be viewed here. “South Africa has a unique opportunity to play a vital role in shaping an abundant future for all Africans,” said Mic Mann, Organizer of the SingularityU South Africa Summit. “Our ability to leverage and develop accelerating technologies in the coming years, will allow us to leapfrog legacy systems and compete in the global economy and have a massive impact on our growth and economic health. It is of the utmost importance for us to bring Singularity University to South Africa to educate, empower and inspire leaders and future leaders in Africa.” For more information, visit the SingularityU South Africa Summit website. This article was published in partnership with Singularity University.