In today’s IT environment, service providers need to partner with reputable vendors and deliver a comprehensive portfolio of innovative products and services to remain competitive. Euphoria Telecom is expanding rapidly and fast becoming the preferred Cloud PBX solution for channel partners. Euphoria Telecom CEO George Golding says Euphoria was developed in South Africa to meet the unique business needs of local businesses. “By partnering with Euphoria Telecom, resellers are not restricted by high international licensing costs and solutions unsuited to the SA business market.” For IT service providers, the competition is high and ensuring customer satisfaction is not as simple as selling ‘off the shelf’, re-branded products. IT service providers need to understand the dynamic needs and requirements of a range of business customers, from a host of industries and across different sized businesses. Euphoria Telecom is known for its customer service and more importantly, its unique approach to identify the core challenges businesses are facing in order to solve their communications problems. Golding says this is one of the reasons IT service providers are choosing Euphoria Telecom as a preferred supplier for business telephone systems. “The right business culture and ethos is as important as the actual product for an increasing number of IT service providers.” “Euphoria does not constrain resellers to low margins, instead honours mutually beneficial partnerships. Resellers are entitled a significant portion of the revenue generated from resale of Euphoria’s product,” he explains. The company prides itself on remaining at the bleeding edge of innovation, giving resellers the peace of mind that their customers are using world-class products. Furthermore, resellers benefit from a range of tools to assist them with sales, technical support, development, API integrations and more. It has an extensive online support portal and hosts regular training to ensure resellers always have the tools to deliver superior support to their customers. Euphoria also supports its partners to take control of their own business and does not tie resellers into bureaucratic processes and policies. “IT service providers who partner with Euphoria Telecom are able to offer more than just a business telephone system. Our business communications solution is cloud-based, scalable, reliable, has built-in redundancy, requires low infrastructure investment and operates on a ‘no long term contract’ policy – catering for all the growing and changing needs for reseller and customers alike,” he concludes. For more information about joining the Euphoria Reseller network, visit http://www.euphoria.co.za/cloud-voip-reseller-program/ or email reseller@euphoria.co.za or contact Euphoria Telecom on (087) 231 0500. This article was published in partnership with Euphoria Telecom.