With our physical, digital, and biological worlds starting to merge, the ways in which we manufacture, distribute, and consume goods and services are set to change radically. Driven by a new wave of digital technology, this era will impact all industry sectors across the globe. People and machines will work together to create faster, more flexible and more efficient processes that will result in higher-quality goods and services at a lower price. According to Klaus Schwab, 2017 chairman and founder of the World Economic Forum, the Fourth Industrial Revolution will be unlike anything we’ve ever experienced – in its scale, scope and complexity. It represents new ways in which society will, and is currently, adopting technology. At no time in history have significant breakthroughs and innovations occurred as regularly or as quickly as they do now. These technological breakthroughs are already shaping (and will continue to shape) a completely new world and will transform the way we do business. To remain relevant in this brave new era, businesses need to adapt to the rapid changes and exponential growth of the Fourth Industrial Revolution. This is the time for your business to take the lead and pioneer new models and operating systems. Your customers will start to expect a wider range of higher-quality goods and services at affordable prices and if your business is not ready or able to meet these demands, another business will be. This means moving out of your comfort zone, embracing creativity and diversity and looking for innovative ways to push traditional industry boundaries. To keep up with the unprecedented levels of connectivity that the Fourth Industrial Revolution demands, your business will also need to be digitised by integrating modern technology, big data, the Cloud and simulation – into your operational structure. With the right technology systems in place, you will have the ability to analyse real-time data, helping you to identify trends and providing you with key insights into how your business runs, how to optimise systems and operations and how consumers react to your business. Thanks to Sage, you are strategically positioned to conquer the Fourth Industrial Revolution, putting your business at the forefront. Sage Evolution is a cost-effective accounting solution, suitable for small to medium businesses with an advanced operating environment. It manages all operational aspects of your business, enabling you to control your financials and manage your relationships with your customers, suppliers, and employees. Prepare your business today, push the industry boundaries and embrace new technologies with Sage. Supporting business builders for over 30 years. “Our experience allows us to package innovative tailor-made solutions, using a range of software to suit your business needs,” says Sage. In addition, Sage’s integrated accounting, payroll and payment systems will empower you to make fast, informed business decisions that will lead to more efficient processes and transform your business in this revolution. For more information visit the Sage website. This article was published in partnership with Sage.