BDO Forensic and Cyber Lab executive David Cohen has told MyBroadband that cybercriminals pose a danger to South African businesses. BDO Cyber Lab provides a number of cybersecurity services, including vulnerability assessments and penetration testing, and runs a response team which deals with cyber attacks. Cohen said it is extremely important for South African companies to factor cybersecurity into the development of their business and become “cyber-ready”. He said cybersecurity should even be prioritised above physical security, and that business executives should be educated about the importance of being secure against attacks. A major factor in creating cyber-secure business environments is challenging employees to be constantly aware of potential attacks, said Cohen. The odds are stacked in the attacker’s favour, and one out-of-date machine or careless employee has the potential to compromise an entire business network. Cohen said while global awareness of cybersecurity is improving among businesses, South African companies are lagging behind in their adoption of cyber-ready practices. This is especially true at the top level, with many executives not aware of the potential dangers a cyber attack can carry. He said a common vulnerability in a business environment is a lack of enforcement for employees to adhere to network security standards. Employees with out-of-date software or misconfigured devices can provide an ideal gateway for hackers to gain access to their company’s network, and it is imperative IT security policies are followed. Cohen said that while major hacks and data breaches reported in the media create more awareness around cybersecurity, an ongoing and enforced change to the culture of local business is required before cybersecurity is seen as a necessity. Cohen said one of BDO Cyber Lab’s core functions is the setting up and maintenance of cyber defenses, including training and penetration tests. The development of cyber risk management and analytics systems is also an important step for companies to take, he said.