The nominations for the 69th Annual Emmy Awards were recently unveiled, honouring TV shows that aired between 1 June 2016 and 31 May 2017, and Showmax has four world-class shows in the running this year. Three more shows that received Emmy nominations will be coming soon to Showmax, together with a whole host of series that are previous nominees and winners! This year’s nominees to watch on Showmax Westworld (function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_GB/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.10";  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk')); This HBO show topped the log for Emmy nominations this year, with a total of 22 nods! The science-fiction western thriller takes place in the fictional Westworld, where the lines between Artificial intelligence and life become ever more blurred. The technologically advanced Wild West–themed amusement park allows people to live out their wildest fantasies, without consequence. The park hosts are all robots programmed not to hurt humans. But eventually they start questioning the nature of their reality. Watch now » The Night Of  This intense mystery thriller that was nominated for 13 Emmy Awards this year will have you fused to your couch. Naz, a seemingly naive student, is accused of a gruesome murder and ends up in prison. The biggest issue for Naz’s motley defence team is that he can’t remember a thing about the night in question, and while they scramble to find other suspects, he has to learn to survive on Rikers Island. Watch now » The Young Pope – First and only on Showmax:  Nominated for two Emmys, the Young Pope stars Jude Law as the charming, newly elected Pius XIII, aka Lenny Belardo – the first American pontiff in history. As Belardo begins his reign, he is stubbornly resistant to the Vatican stewards, instead relying on Diane Keaton as Sister Mary to serve as his chief adviser. The miniseries scored an Emmy nomination for Outstanding Production Design, plus an Emmy nod for its cinematography. Watch now » The Late Late Show with James Corden – Only on Showmax and express from the US  Nominated for the Emmy for Outstanding Variety Talk Show this year, and winner of the Emmy for Outstanding Interactive Programme in 2016, this popular late-night talk show is best known for its viral Carpool Karaoke skits. British actor, singer and comedian James Corden is the brilliant host, and brings celebrities and musical guests together in an entertaining late-night party. The Late Late Show comes fresh from the US on Showmax with episodes going live just 24 hours after their US debut. Watch now » This year’s nominees coming soon to Showmax Big Little Lies: due in September  This series scored 16 Emmy nominations, including for all four core actresses (Nicole Kidman, Reese Witherspoon, Shailene Woodley and Laura Dern), a nomination for Alexander Skarsgard, plus for Outstanding Limited Series. The well-hidden secrets of a seaside town’s elite are suddenly exposed after a suspicious death in this darkly funny, Emmy-nominated miniseries with an all-star cast. Blackish: due in January 2018  This clever comedy has earned seven Emmy nominations in total, four last year and three for 2017, which include Outstanding Comedy Series, Outstanding Lead Actor and Outstanding Lead Actress. Andre ‘Dre’ Johnson and his family live in a predominantly white, upper-middle-class neighbourhood. Dre sets out to establish a sense of cultural identity for his family – raising the kids to honour their past while embracing the future. American Crime: due in January 2018  American Crime received two nominations this year, for Outstanding Lead Actress (Felicity Huffman, also in Desperate Housewives – the full boxset is available on Showmax) and Outstanding Supporting Actress for Regina King, who’s received this nomination three years in a row. Matt Skokie’s (Grant Merritt) parents, Barb (Felicity Huffman) and her estranged ex-husband Russ (Timothy Hutton), struggle to cope with their son’s death while relentlessly seeking to bring his killer to justice as they endure the legal investigation and discover dark secrets about their children along the way. Previous winners and nominees on Showmax now Crazy Ex-Girlfriend, Season 1 (function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_GB/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.10";  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk')); Winner of two Emmy Awards in 2016, Crazy Ex-Girlfriend revolves around Rebecca, an ace New York lawyer. A chance meeting with her high school sweetheart makes her leave everything behind and move to California seeking love, happiness, and contentment. Watch now » Shameless, S1-5  Winner of two Emmys in total, and nominated every year since 2011, this dark, crude comedy is exactly what the title suggests. Frank Gallagher (William H Macy) is an alcoholic, working-class father of six who is more likely to be found passed out at the local bar than looking after his kids. That job falls to his eldest daughter, Fiona (Emmy Rossum), who is unofficial mom in a chaotic and crazy household. Watch now » Silicon Valley, S1-3  You could call this comedy a bit of an Emmy darling, with 22 nominations in total over the years, but only two wins so far. It’s about six young men who founded a start-up company in Silicon Valley. In today’s high-tech gold rush, these geeks are the most qualified to strike success. Watch now » Fargo, S1-2 (function(d, s, id) {  var js, fjs = d.getElementsByTagName(s)[0];  if (d.getElementById(id)) return;  js = d.createElement(s); js.id = id;  js.src = "//connect.facebook.net/en_GB/sdk.js#xfbml=1&version=v2.10";  fjs.parentNode.insertBefore(js, fjs);}(document, 'script', 'facebook-jssdk')); Winner of five Emmys to date, and too many nominations to count. This dark comedy is based on the Coen brothers film of the same name. It’s full of suspense, is brilliantly written and will keep you hooked as the intricate plot unfolds. Seasons 1 and 2 are both on Showmax. Watch now » Get Showmax to binge on all Emmy nominees and Emmy-winning series – when you sign up, you’ll get a FREE 14-day trial! For more information visit the Showmax website. This article was published in partnership with Showmax.