Hisense is set to #AimHigh and solidify its strong position within the South African television market with the release of two new exceptional Ultra LED (ULED) televisions. Since the introduction of ULED technology, Hisense’s line-up has incorporated a number of sizes and price points, allowing a wide range of consumers to experience the superior image quality, clarity and precision that ULED offers. And the brand has certainly been flying high, with Hisense South Africa maintaining the top spot in TV unit market share from March to December 2016, and April to May 2017. The latest premium 4K television models, the flagship 75″ N9700 and the 65″ N8700, continue to push the technology forward, making these the obvious choice for discerning viewers. New additions One would be hard pressed to do better than Hisense’s hero 55″ ULED Curved T910 TV from last year, but the electronics forerunner has done just that with the 2017 flagship model – the 75N9700. This 75″ set carries the distinction of being the largest ULED TV that Hisense has introduced yet, and with its pleasing aesthetics that are easy on the eye, this television will be the focal point of any living room. Featuring a unique design, the 75N9700 sees a Dolby Digital-enabled sound bar situated below the narrow aluminium frame that houses its Quantum Dot technology display. The flagship offers an unmatched brightness of 2 200 nits, which means every detail of the screen is illuminated for a superb viewing experience. If 75” is too much screen to handle, the 65″ 65N8700 is perfect for the living room, sporting a variety of noteworthy design features. These include a frameless, ultra-slim 8.9 mm body, along with Dolby Digital audio functionality, all of which sits on a centrally mounted aluminium stand for a sophisticated aesthetic. Coupled with its sleek design, the 65N8700 delivers peak brightness of 1 000 nits. When it comes to backlight control and algorithm optimization, Hisense is the industry-leader. The backlight in the TVs has been engineered such that it’s divided into hundreds of zones, which minimizes the impact from each zone by controlling them individually. This means that blacks can be darker, and whites can be brighter, without being influenced by backlight of adjacent areas. More zones, more accurate contrast performance. This year Hisense has even divided the backlight into up to 560 individual zones in the new ULED – which is 320 more zones than last year. As with most of Hisense’s ULED TVs, the 75N9700 and 65N8700 boast breath-taking 4K displays, each serving up a rich 3840×2160 resolution and wider colour gamut compared to normal LED TVs. Added to this is HDR (High Dynamic Range) Supreme, which enhances the brightness and contrast of the televisions’ picture quality across the board. With high-end gaming consoles all favouring HDR to showcase their newest titles, having this feature is essential in delivering a more immersive experience for gamers. On the Smart TV front, Hisense has integrated the new VIDAA U operating system on both models. Designed to turn the television into a home entertainment hub once connected to a Wi-Fi network, they present users with an easy-to-navigate interface and a variety of apps to enjoy. It is worth noting that both the 75N9700 and 65N8700 are proudly manufactured locally by the Hisense factory, located in Atlantis in the Western Cape. On the horizon With the breakthrough ULED technology introduced a year ago, Hisense South Africa’s Television Product Manager, Serena Lee, notes that when designing the two new ULED offerings, the company listened to feedback from consumers to improve the viewing experience. “New market trends constantly emerge in a rapidly changing television industry. With our new additions to the ULED range, both colour and contrast have been enhanced with the introduction of HDR Supreme for unparalleled brightness and deeper colours,” explains Lee. “Both the 75N9700 and 65N8700 will provide Hisense consumers with an amazing 4K viewing experience, ” she concludes. Apart from pioneering ULED on a global scale, Hisense continues to innovate in the television sector, having recently showcased its Laser TV technology. Laser TV was developed to ensure Hisense’s next wave of offerings remain lightweight and cost effective, while delivering premium picture quality. Hisense South Africa looks forward to introducing this new technology soon to local shores. The recommended retail pricing is as follows: For more information, visit the Hisense website. This article was published in partnership with Hisense.