Showmax continually brings fresh new entertainment first to South Africa, and this is what you can start binge-watching today. Packed with action, drama and everything in between, Showmax is now offering the following hot new shows: The Night Of, S1  After a night of partying with a very pretty stranger, a student wakes up to find her stabbed to death, and is charged with her murder. The only thing is, he can’t remember a thing about the night in question. This intense mystery thriller that was nominated for 13 Emmy Awards this year will have you fused to your couch. The Night Of received an 8.6/10 rating on IMDb and a 95% audience score on Rotten Tomatoes. Watch now » Taboo, S1 (first on Showmax)  You can now binge-watch Period drama Taboo first and only on Showmax in Africa. Set in 1814, the series centres on the mysterious return of the long-presumed-dead James Keziah Delaney (Tom Hardy) when he returns home from Africa to 19th-Century London to inherit his late father’s shipping empire. With a handful of Oscar-nominees including actors, writers and producers contributing to the production, the series is poised to be a hit. Taboo received an 8.7/10 rating on IMDB, an 80% rating from critics and 93% audience score on Rotten Tomatoes. Watch now » Rectify, S1-S4 – S4 only on Showmax  The acclaimed fourth and final season of Rectify is now streaming first and only on Showmax in Africa, with all four seasons available to binge-watch for those late to one of the most critically acclaimed TV series ever. Rectify follows the life of Daniel Holden (Aden Young), who returns to his small hometown in Georgia, America after serving 19 years on Death Row. Having spent his entire adult life in prison, Daniel must now try to forge a “normal” life, even while doubts remain over the crime he was originally convicted of. At the time of writing, the final season had a 100% rating from critics on Rotten Tomatoes and a 99% rating from Metacritic. Watch now » Kingdom, S1 – S3  – Only on Showmax  Kingdom’s third season is the AT&T Audience Network’s martial arts drama series’ final season. Seasons 1 and 2 are also available on Showmax. The series stars Frank Grillo as a former MMA fighter trying to keeping his mixed martial arts gym afloat and his family united. He is willing to go through extraordinary means to make sure his fighters are taken care of, but all of this responsibility comes at a steep price. This action-packed series has an 8.4/10 rating on IMDB, and a 96% audience score on Rotten Tomatoes, and now Season 3 is available only on Showmax, with each episode landing just 24 hours after it airs in the US! Watch now » Watch all the new shows on Showmax now. Not signed up? For a free, no-risk 14-day trial, or for more information visit www.showmax.com This article was published in partnership with Showmax.