ODEK Customer Engagement is all about embracing the change and moving with it. Thanks to technology, our industry is always on the lookout for new and more desirable solutions, creating new job positions every day. Ten years ago, Facebook was in its infancy, Twitter was just being launched, and iPhone were still only a dream for most of us, but today, the world is a very different place, and so is the workplace. Today, numerous jobs exist that we wouldn’t have dreamed off ten years ago, and more shockingly, children starting school today will one day be working in fields that currently aren’t known to mankind yet. “This pace of change is only going to get faster thanks to rapid advances in the fields of robotics, driverless transport, artificial intelligence, biotechnology, advanced materials and genomics,” according to the World Economic Forum’s latest annual Human Capital Index. This job only appeared after the iPhone arrived in 2007 and the Android shortly after. Now nearly half the world’s adults have a smartphone, which has created a booming market for app developers, and there are now 6 million apps. In 2007, most social media platforms had yet to be created, and so social media managers were not yet a necessity. Today, however, Facebook has 2 billion users worldwide and, alongside other platforms such as Twitter and Instagram, has become an indispensable marketing tool with which brands can engage with consumers. The app-based ride-hailing company was founded in 2009, when the first drivers started work. Today, it has grown to become the world’s most valuable start-up, with an average of 1 million rides taken across 75 countries each day and an average of 50,000 drivers added each month. Driverless cars may be threatening the roles of taxi drivers and couriers, especially since Uber launched its first self-diving fleet last year, but they are also beginning to create some new jobs. Driverless cars require engineers, mechanics and software developers to work on the vehicles, and these jobs will be increasingly in demand going forward. With volumes of data growing at a rate of 40% per year, people who can analyse and process all this information are in high demand. Big data analysts have the exciting job of trying to unearth information to give their company the edge over its competitors. Thanks to YouTube and other video-sharing platforms that followed in its wake, video-blogging or ‘vlogging’ is now a career. The most successful YouTube stars attracting millions of dollars through advertising, social media management and sponsorship deals. The global market for unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) has been growing rapidly, creating job opportunities for drone operators. It’s predicted that 100,000 additional UAV jobs will flood the market over the next few years, including UAV operators, pilots, and engineers at all levels of employment experience. Market research data miners trawl through your marketing, your interactions, etc. and provide concise reports on what works and what doesn’t for your product. It’s more important now than ever to have a clear understanding of the market and what would have been done within other roles ten years ago, has now become a job of its own. The evolution of the search algorithm since the late-2000s has made SEO techniques, which help your website show up at the top of the search engine results, more complex. As a result, some of the most important digital jobs today are in SEO, where specialists increase the search optimisation of websites and content without affecting the overall quality of the search experience on the internet. The term ‘cloud computing’ was apparently mentioned at a Google conference in 2006 and has been used ever since. In the five years up to 2013 alone, cloud computing specialist jobs saw growth of an amazing 1,700%. Most businesses today make use of cloud technology today, whether it be for their email, data backup, remote working, or even to manage their call centres. With the emergence of cloud computing there has also been a spike in number of cloud-based security jobs that didn’t exist 10 years ago, from cloud email security roles to cloud security architects who work on keeping your data safe and secure. ODEK’s Customer Engagement (OCE) Cloud solution, for example, brings remarkable growth and customer experience to an organisation. Moving a customer service call centre into a cloud platform has many advantages, which include the possibility of major cost savings, as well as higher customer satisfaction. With the OCE Cloud solution, migrating your call centre into the cloud shouldn’t have to be expensive or tedious. For more information, visit the ODEK website. This article was published in partnership with ODEK.