WeThinkCode is a two-year programming and coding course aimed at addressing the scarcity of programmers and developers in South Africa. The course comprises of a peer-to-peer learning system and applications are open to anyone between 17-35, regardless of previous education. Students enrolled at WeThinkCode do not pay any fees and are given a regular stipend for the duration of the course. The initiative recently partnered with BCX, allowing it to expand its campus in Johannesburg and open a new campus in Cape Town. WeThinkCode cofounder Arlene Mulder told MyBroadband that they are not done yet, and plan to grow the course going forward. WeThinkCode’s first campus was established in central Johannesburg, with its Cape Town campus also located in the central city. The Cape Town premises is expected to be operational by the end of the year. Mulder said the organisation is also looking at creating student accommodation for its Cape Town branch, and is considering a number of locations. There are currently no confirmed plans for WeThinkCode to open more campuses other than in Johannesburg and Cape Town, but Mulder said the organisation is interested in expanding its reach across sub-Saharan Africa. Mulder said if the organisation was to open more campuses, it would look at other African countries or at creating a large central hub in South Africa – allowing residents of African countries to attend the programme. “We are very interested in expanding into other places, and the opening of our Cape Town campus will be a great learning experience for future expansion,” she said. WeThinkCode also recently opened its first student accommodation in Johannesburg, within walking distance of its campus. Mulder said the number of students enrolled in the WeThinkCode course is expected to increase substantially in the future. The Cape Town campus will host 200 new students and the Johannesburg campus will accommodate 400 students in 2018. She said WeThinkCode students placed in internships have performed exceptionally well so far, with partner businesses commending their self-motivation and problem-solving skills. Mulder said the aim of the WeThinkCode programme is to address the shortage of developers in South Africa by introducing intelligent students to the world of programming, regardless of their educational background or financial situation.