Bidorbuy has disputed allegations that it is contravening any Payments Association of South Africa (PASA) policies and rules related to sorting at source. Sorting at source is the practice of an eCommerce player having multiple bank accounts, with a number of different banks. The payment service provider sorts the payment instructions per bank and relays them to each respective bank – which in turn processes them as “on-us” transactions. PASA told MyBroadband that sorting at source as a general means of making payment is prohibited under its policies and rules. Two industry players told MyBroadband that their competitors are engaging in sorting at source, and that PASA is investigating the issue. Companies accused of sorting at source include Bidorbuy, PayFast, the SABC, and PayU. MyBroadband asked the four companies about the allegations. Bidorbuy declined to answer the question about whether it is engaging in sorting at source for its online payments. A Bidorbuy spokesperson said they are not aware of being accused of sorting at source, and have not received any correspondence from any party regarding this. “We do not believe that we are contravening any of the PASA policies and rules and have not received correspondence to that effect,” said Bidorbuy. “We can therefore not provide any real meaningful comment around your questions at this point in time.” PayFast CEO Jonathan Smit said the issue of sorting at source relates to an ongoing discussion within the payment industry – particularly regarding PASA’s sorting at source policy and the SARB’s position on the matter. “As this discussion is ongoing, and the SARB is in the process of reviewing and developing a comprehensive policy position regarding the practice, I believe that commenting would be premature at this stage,” said Smit. He said PayFast is engaging with the relevant entities in this regard, including PASA, the SARB, and the banks, and that clarity will be forthcoming in the future. The SABC did not provide feedback regarding the allegations. PayU declined to officially comment on questions sent to it.