Effective communication plays a very important role in any business enterprise and can often influence a business’ success levels. Today, we are more dependent on systems to deliver and receive messages than ever before, and this is visible in the way telecommunications and SIP telephony systems have become as essential to companies as personnel, capital, and marketing. Digital communication is part of our everyday business landscape, and now chat and text messaging have become an increasingly popular method of communication. Yet many factors determine how the receiver interprets the message, even the knowledge we already possess, as we compare every new piece of information we learn with it. As such, text-based communication often lends itself more to miscommunication, and many things can intervene and prevent the intended message from being received. Without an effective system, the message you want to convey can be lost in translation and cause unsolicited disruption in your workplace. For this reason, voice communications have become an important form of telecommunications for businesses, because of its use for communication among and between employees and customers and for the dissemination of information. Voice communications are in fact, a business resource that can improve internal and external communication, maintain good internal and external relationships, save time and money, and even help earn money. Besides the fact that it is cost effective, the voice quality of the communication with SIP telephony is significantly higher. It allows the ability to use a single high-speed Internet connection for all voice, video, and data communications. Voice also offers innumerable options for effectively managing business communication, which are not available in an ordinary telephone system. Installation of business SIP telephony System ensures better productivity and a streamlined work environment. Aside from making phone calls, you can also conduct videoconferencing calling through your SIP phone. This allows you to stay in touch with your co-workers and clients to discuss important deals, affairs, meetings, files, documents, agendas, no matter where you are. Activate Telecoms provides a tailor-made telecommunication solution specific to your business and needs. Activate utilises cutting-edge technology, complimented by South Africa’s most innovative networks such as Liquid and Telkom, to provide the most efficient and cost-effective solutions. For more information visit the Activate Telecoms website. This article was published in partnership with Activate Telecoms.