As new players enter the subscription video on demand (SVOD) arena, South Africans are streaming content more than ever. Here are five factors that make Showmax unique. One of the things that sets Showmax apart from other locally available SVOD services is its extensive catalogue of South African content, such as Boer Soek ‘n Vrou, Binnelanders, Getroud Met Rugby, and Hoe Ons Rol as well as The Wild, Isibaya and classics like Vetkoekpaleis. Showmax brought The Young Pope, starring Jude Law, to Africa first this year and has the exclusive rights to MMA series Kingdom season 3 as well as first rights to the Dr Who spin-off Class, both launching in June. Showmax has the rights to international shows including Game of Thrones, Grey’s Anatomy, Fargo, Mr. Robot, Satisfaction, Mistresses and Beauty and the Beast. It also has several classic HBO series not available elsewhere, such as The Newsroom, Band of Brothers and The Pacific as well as BBC content, including shows like Call the Midwife and Luther. In terms of data consumption, Showmax offers several data-saving options for its users. You can estimate the amount of data you need to watch streaming video with the online bandwidth calculator and limit the quality of the video so you can save data. Showmax also supports adaptive bitrates, which automatically adapts your stream to the best quality your line will support. If you have the data, you can go automatic, but if you want to save data, you can manually set limits on video quality. Showmax allows you to download up to 25 shows on Wi-Fi and watch offline on your Android or Apple smartphones and tablets, while streaming is available on mobile devices as well as laptops, Apple TV, DStv Explora, Chromecast, Airplay and smart TVs. In terms of pricing, Showmax’s full premium catalogue is still available at its launch price of R99 per month, giving you access to two simultaneous HD streams. Showmax has also partnered with Vodacom to offer a Select package for R49 per month, with access to over 4 000 hours of series, movies, documentaries and kids’ shows. There’s currently a Vodacom and Showmax deal which gives you 3GB of data for free if you sign up through Vodacom or add your Showmax subscription to your Vodacom bill. Check it out here » Another standout feature is the fact that it’s priced in Rands, and you can subscribe without a credit card. Prepaid vouchers for Showmax are available to buy at selected Pick n Pay and CNA stores, Game, Makro, HiFi Corp and Incredible Connection stores. You can also pay with Pick n Pay Smart Shopper points, FNB eBucks vouchers, Standard Bank UCount Vouchers, and ABSA Rewards Vouchers. Alternatively, you can add Showmax to your DStv, Telkom or Vodacom account, or pay via PayPal. While all this makes Showmax stand out from other services, it also includes the cool features that make SVOD platforms user-friendly, such as tracking what you’ve watched across platforms and remembering where you left off, even in the middle of an episode, so that you can resume from there. For more information or to sign up, go to Showmax.com. This article was published in partnership with Showmax.