ICT distributor Drive Control Corporation’s (DCC) partnership with Citrix Technologies represents an exciting phase in the company’s delivery of optimised and high-performing networking solutions to the South African channel. Citrix solutions are currently used by over 100 million users globally and was recently awarded, for the tenth year running, a Leader in Application Delivery Controllers by Gartner’s Magic Quadrant. The company’s award-winning NetScaler range of products that include NetScaler SD-WAN, NetScaler ADC and NetScaler Unified Gateway are now available from DCC. “Our distribution of Citrix represents a significant and exciting step in providing truly world-leading application, security and overall networking optimisation products to the local market,” comments Bruce Askham, Citrix business development manager at DCC. “The company’s NetScaler range enables organisations to optimally manage and improve their networks, ensuring uptime and reliable performance which are crucial in today’s business-driven application environments.” The Citrix NetScaler SD-WAN product has been optimised to tackle today’s application traffic.  This software-defined WAN solution combines packet-level, real-time path selection, WAN optimisation, firewall, routing, and application analytics into one comprehensive solution. NetScaler SD-WAN offers the following important features: Citrix NetScaler ADC is an advanced software-defined application delivery controller that provides outstanding delivery of business applications—to any device and any location—with advanced security, superior L4-L7 (layer four to layer seven) load balancing, reliable GSLB (global server load balancing) and 100 percent uptime. According to Citrix, NetScaler ADC offers up to five times the performance of its closest competitors.  Ultimately, the solution delivers optimised and reliable application performance to companies across the globe. Citrix NetScaler Unified Gateway provides users with secure remote access to business applications deployed in the datacentre across a range of devices including laptops, desktops, thin clients, tablets and smartphones. It provides a consolidated infrastructure, simplifies IT and reduces the TCO of the datacentre. The solution consolidates remote access infrastructure to provide single sign-on across all applications whether in a datacentre or in a cloud or delivered as SaaS. It allows people to access any app, from any device, through a single URL. For more information, click here. This article was published in partnership with Drive Control Corporation.