Traditional WAN designs are expensive, complex, and lack the agility and performance for modern cloud-based or bandwidth-intensive applications. For this reason, geographically distributed enterprises are embracing Software-Defined Wide Area Networking (SD-WAN) at an accelerated pace. SD-WAN aims to replace MPLS, the protocol of the past for speeding up and shaping network traffic flows, over time through hybrid deployments. Not only does SD-WAN dramatically lower costs, but it helps enterprises become more agile by enhancing business productivity. These benefits, along with other unique attributes of SD-WAN, combine to produce a higher return on investment than an MPLS-only or traditional hybrid WAN deployment. This raises the question for many companies about whether MPLS is spurring future growth within their business or not. Thankfully, SD-WAN can change that and will benefit your business in the following ways: By turning to SD-WAN, enterprises stand to benefit greatly from being able to quickly change policies and provide new services without having to get a provider involved. With SD-WAN, an IT department can insert a new service into its network in minutes instead of weeks. A central orchestrator provides the ability to introduce new applications with ease as well as change firewall rules, quality of service and routing parameters in a simple and efficient manner. Once the rules are applied, the SD-WAN infrastructure will replicate them to the edge devices and sites. IT departments and network administrators can have complete insight into their network and no longer have to log tickets with their service provider to find out the status of a link or site or make firewall changes. They can have complete visibility through the SD-WAN orchestrator of which sites are up, which ones are down and which ones are performing poorly and then act to mitigate those issues. The immediate benefit of SD-WAN, bar the value, is that an enterprise’s network will have more bandwidth available at a lower price allowing a business to improve the experience of its customers and staff. SD-WAN can leverage existing links and over time, as the ease and usability of the system become apparent, and as the SLA matches that of MPLS, the MPLS links can be phased out. It allows companies to regain control of their wide area network and internet connectivity, deploy and configure a site within minutes, and obtain insight into the network as to which users and applications are consuming resources and to prioritise, block or throttle traffic. SD-WAN is transforming traditional MPLS-based networks into architectures that deliver performance, simplicity, and optimal access to on-premise applications and cloud services If you want to get the most out of your SD-WAN deployment it is advisable to work with a managed service provider who can interrogate your network and understand your requirements. This will ensure that your business derives the maximum benefit and required SLA from your SD-WAN solution. For more information, you can visit the Saicom website or complete the online form to request a demo. This article was published in partnership with Saicom.