Software developers are in high demand in South Africa, and consistently feature as the most sought-after employees in CareerJunction’s job reports. Good programmers may have their pick of great jobs in South Africa, but must still pass an interview process. While the interviews often focus on technical skills, many companies include questions aimed at establishing whether the person will fit in at the organisation. Recruitment website Glassdoor encourages employees to share the interview questions they faced when they applied for a job at a particular company. Feedback from South African software developers on Glassdoor shows that interview questions are mixed, ranging from tech-specific to very general. Interview questions shared by programmers and tech employees who applied for jobs at top companies are listed below. Software Developer at Derivco – What technical blogs do you follow? Software Developer at VOSS Solutions – Write pseudocode to convert snake to camel case. Systems Engineer at Eskom – Describe yourself and job experience in the past. Applications Developer at Dimension Data – Describe your experience with API technologies. System Specialist at Vodacom – What is a zombie process in UNIX? Software Engineer at RJ Softwares – What will you do if you found a BUG? C# Developer at Dev2 – What is the difference between ‘type of’ and ‘is’ in C#? Software Engineer at Ocado – How would you implement a garbage collector. Junior Developer at Standard Bank – Give an estimate as to how tall this building was as you walked in? Junior Developer at Standard Bank – Why are manholes round? Software Developer at ACI – Merge two unsorted arrays into a sorted array. Enterprise Architect at LifeLabs – What’s the difference between primitive and composite views in Zachman? Technical Lead at HCL – What was your most challenging working experience? Cloud Support Engineer at Amazon – What happens when you type amazon.com into your browser? Cloud Support Engineer at Amazon – Can you explain the Linux boot process? Cloud Support Engineer at Amazon – How do you install a package in Ubuntu? Cloud Support Engineer at Amazon – What does apt-get update do? What does apt-get upgrade do? Cloud Support Engineer at Amazon – What ports are used for SSH, SSL and what is the default MySQL port? Cloud Support Engineer at Amazon – What is the meaning of the various codes used in assigning permissions in chmod and what does each position signify? Cloud Support Engineer at Amazon – How do you scale a PHP application? Cloud Support Engineer at Amazon – How do you host two websites using the same IP? Cloud Support Engineer at Amazon – How do you check the states of slow running queries in databases and how do you optimise them? Cloud Support Engineer at Amazon – How would you migrate an application from Google Cloud Datastore to Amazon S3? Cloud Support Engineer at Amazon – What is the difference between absolute and relative URLs and what are the advantages/disadvantages of each? User Experience Designer at ThoughtWorks – Why don’t you host a refugee at home? IT Business Analyst at Value Logistics – Explain a left join, join and inner join in SQL. Game Developer at Two Bulls – Explain the difference between inner joins and outer joins. Software Development Engineer at Amazon – What are the challenges facing cloud computing? Software Innovator at EAI Technologies – How would you build a Search Engine? Graduate Programmer at Accenture – Give a time when you had to learn something new very quickly and how did you handle the situation and what was the outcome? Graduate Programmer at Accenture – Where have you had to make a difficult decision? What was it and what was the process?