Digital Transformation is characterised by new technology adoption and rapid change. In the last decade, two major technology trends have converged and are set to have a significant effect on corporate networks: virtual computing and the rise of cloud technology. Both of these trends dramatically increase the importance of the corporate network on business performance. The result is a significant increase in network traffic, from branch to data centre, from branch to branch, and between various devices and the data centre. And much of this traffic is real-time communications, including video and voice. This results in the necessity for more bandwidth, more latency-sensitive applications, and more reliance on network availability and quality. The emergence of new technologies has meant that network traffic in distributed organizations is manipulated in new ways. Not only do remote users need more bandwidth, notably in areas such as video or media, but they now expect immediate access to cloud-based applications, Software as a Service (SaaS), and remote storage apps. Worldwide, organisations of all sizes rely on Wide Area Networks (WANs) to connect branch offices to the data centre and deliver the business-critical applications their employees depend on. Maintaining high availability and quality of service requires a solution that ensure users remain connected at all times – one that strengthens security and provides end-to-end visibility without adding complexity. SD-WAN is that solution. In the past, information technology was centred on PCs, servers and data centres. Now virtual computing has reached every corner of the IT world. But unfortunately, traditional WANs have not been able to keep pace with today’s ever-increasing bandwidth demands. As desktop virtualisation and applications move to the cloud, IT managers increasingly face the challenge of providing these applications without incurring performance penalties to branch and mobile users. Hence the need for Software Defined WAN. Drive Control Corporation (DCC) in partnership with Citrix offers Citrix NetScaler SD-WAN a world-leading product capable of ensuring efficient use of increased network capacity, cost reduction, improved performance as well as incomparable reliability for business critical applications. Citrix Netscaler SD WAN is a complete, scalable and integrated portfolio of workspace-as a service, application delivery, virtualisation, mobility network delivery and file-sharing solutions via the cloud or on premise, across any device or platform. The principal benefits of Citrix NetScaler SD-WAN include: For more information, visit the Citrix website. This article was published in partnership with DCC and Citrix.