Showmax has partnered with Vodacom to make it even easier to watch your favourite series, movies, documentaries and kids’ shows anytime, anywhere. Add your existing Showmax subscription to your Vodacom bill, or sign up as a new user through Vodacom, and get 3GB of data for free – 1GB per month for three months – for Showmax streaming or downloading. Showmax is an internet TV service giving access to the hottest international and local shows online using phones, laptops, tablets, Apple TVs, Chromecasts, DStv Exploras and smart TVs. Download up to 25 shows on Wi-Fi and watch offline on Android or Apple smartphones and tablets. Showmax gives subscribers a variety of payment options: if you don’t have a cheque or credit card, or don’t want to make online payments, pay for Showmax using vouchers, PayPal or, for maximum convenience, add it to your DStv or your Vodacom bill. Showmax does not tie subscribers to a long-term contract. Unsubscribe or resubscribe at any time. The free 1GB per month is enough to watch up to 35 episodes of series such as The Big Bang Theory or Friends using Showmax’s most bandwidth-efficient quality setting. Showmax’s online bandwidth calculator helps estimate the amount of data needed to watch streaming video. Manage data by using the bandwidth capping function, which reduces data consumption by selecting a lower streaming video-quality level. Showmax allows users to optimise data usage for different devices by, for example, setting the kids cartoons to low quality on the tablet and setting the smart TV on the maximum quality for watching Game of Thrones in glorious HD. Depending on budget and TV-watching habits, choose either Showmax Premium (R99 per month) or Showmax Select (R49 per month). Here are the differences between the two:  To access this Vodacom deal, new subscribers need to sign up through Vodacom and existing subscribers need to add their Showmax bill to their Vodacom account on the Vodacom website » Here’s a step by step guide to the process: 1. Go to the Showmax sign-up page on the Vodacom website»  Add your cell number and choose the package – Select or Premium. Accept the terms and conditions and click to Activate 2. You will then be directed to this screen:  Click on the purple button to send the OTP to your Vodacom cell phone. 3. Enter the OTP that is SMSed to your Vodacom phone into the blank field in the next screen. 4. You will then be redirected here:  Click the Close button and wait for the activation link. 5. After receiving the SMS with the link, click on it to sign in to an existing account or sign up for a new account on the Showmax website 6. Finally, you will see a screen that says “Your Showmax Subscription purchase was successful” and then you’re all set to start watching over 25 000 series episodes and movies with 1GB of data for free, every month for three months! For more information visit the Showmax website. This article was published in partnership with Showmax.