Having recently established the Huawei Cloud Business Unit, Huawei has its sights set on transforming industrial Cloud in South Africa. Speaking at the MyBroadband Cloud, Hosting and Security Conference 2017, Fernando Gordo, CTO of Data Center, IT and Cloud Solutions at Huawei Technologies, outlined Huawei’s Cloud vision. “The world is changing, and the digital area is changing our lives and business, which brings both important challenges and opportunities,” said Gordo. “For business in the digital era, we now have a multitude of sensors and devices, where all things are connected, and connectivity is important, so technology is becoming faster and cheaper. “ He added that the Cloud has gone through two generations – from companies having to adapt to the Cloud or those born in Cloud now having to grow in Cloud. Huawei started investing in the cloud software and platforms ten years ago internally, but now the company offers a portfolio of cloud products and services. “Just this year we set up the Huawei Cloud Business Unit, and we have become the first Asian platinum member of the OpenStack Foundation,” Gordo told conference delegates. Gordo added that Huawei has noticed that the trend in Cloud is for businesses to move to a hybrid model to enjoy the advantages of both public and private cloud. Huawei’s open-source SD-DC2 Solution provides a flexible software-defined infrastructure for data centres that puts just the right amount of infrastructure in place so customers can easily manage it throughout its entire lifecycle. “The clear advantage of Cloud is the ability to share resources, and it allows for physical resources to be spread in different data centres, even on different continents, which are virtualized and managed as one pool of resources. “It can be dedicated to one environment and managed in a very agile, flexible way, with scalability,” Gordo said. Open platform architecture facilitates win-win for Huawei and its partners, and it also means that customers don’t need to deal with multiple contacts at multiple organisations but can enjoy a single interface with Huawei and its partners. “Moving to a cloud environment is complex, though, so we test solutions before deploying them to customers, and in mid-2017 we will be deploying our OpenLab in Johannesburg where we test Cloud solutions before rolling it out to customers,” Gordo revealed. The new OpenLab will enable Huawei to work with various industry partners across the world to create customer-centric and innovative solutions that enable digital transformation while promoting industry ecosystem development. Huawei also helps worldwide customers succeed through consulting, helping them to understand the importance of moving to the Cloud, putting together a business case, delivering the solution, and if required, even operate the solution for the customer. “Technology is only the first step, though,” Gordo concluded. “The other two key enablers to drive business value from the cloud are people and processes.” For more information visit the Huawei website. This article was published in partnership with Huawei.