As Ethereum grows in value, more users are interested in getting involved with the platform. Certain cryptocurrency blockchains can be mined using computer processing power, which earns miners a passive income after an initial investment in mining hardware. Unlike Bitcoin, Ethereum is designed to be mined with consumer graphics cards – making it easier for the average user to earn Ethereum. Purchasing a pre-built mining system is easier, but building your own Ethereum rig is relatively straightforward and can save you money. The amount of Ethereum generated from your mining rig will depend on how many graphics cards you include in your build. AMD graphics cards are more effective than Nvidia GPUs at mining cryptocurrency, and the new Radeon RX 400 and RX 500 series offers great mining performance. A few basic components are also necessary, including a motherboard with enough PCIe slots for your graphics cards, a power supply large enough to run your hardware, a small SSD, and a basic processor. The cost of the power supply and motherboard will depend on how many graphics cards are in the build, and powered PCIe risers may be required to support multiple graphics cards. A full chassis is not required, although users may need to modify their case or test bench to support more graphics card risers or provide better cooling. The power of a mining rig is measured according to its hash rate, measured in megahashes per second. Our example rig includes four Radeon RX 480 graphics cards with a hash rate of 25MH/s each, for a total of 100MH/s. We have listed the components and pricing for a mining rig which includes a motherboard and power supply with support for up to six graphics cards, and powered PCIe risers to allow for external GPU mounting, below. After you have purchased your hardware, you will need to set up your system for mining Ethereum. While you can mine Ethereum on a Windows PC, a cost-efficient option is to use the ethOS 64-bit Linux operating system. ethOS is available to download from its official website. The operating system requires a 16GB or larger SSD, a minimum 2GB of RAM, and a basic 64-bit processor. Users can download and install the OS on their SSD, after which they can connect it to their mining rig and configure their mining settings. ethOS uses a browser-based terminal which makes it easy for users to set up a destination wallet address and connect to a mining pool. The OS is configured for pool mining, which is the most efficient way for most Ethereum miners to operate – unless they have multiple mining rigs and a lot of hashing power.