Network Platforms, leading FTTH and xDSL reseller platform, now includes even more value with the introduction of a free PC/Laptop backup client that includes 5GB of stored data as well as a free Voice over IP account with every FTTH / xDSL account. “Our reseller portal allows us to set different bandwidth rates for different applications or services which we refer to as special services,” says Brad Love, Network Platforms CEO. One of the special services offered by Network Platforms is free Netflix and Showmax data until the end of August, after which resellers will be charged a monthly set access fee to stream unlimited video on either service. “As part of the additional backup and voice service we will be zero rating backup and voice data, which means when using the backup service or voice over IP data on our capped services, data will not be billed,” Love adds. With the increase in Ransomware attacks, a backup service is an essential part of taking preventive measures to avoid data loss. Network Platforms uses Redstor as its preferred backup application, which is implemented on the enterprise infrastructure hosting in Network Platforms’ data centre environments with full replication of the backup environment. Should clients want to back up more than the allocated 5GB per month, Network Platforms does cater to add additional increments in 5GB batches that are billed for. Should a client backup 200GB or more of stored data, Network Platforms also offers a service where, in the event of full data loss you require a restore, they will courier an external drive with the restored data to anywhere in the country. This alleviates lengthy restores that can clog up your internet connection and take days if not weeks to restore depending on the amount of data. “For the best quality FTTH / xDSL bandwidth contact one of our resellers, and should you be interested in becoming a reseller, please go to the following link,” Love concludes. For more information, go to http://www.networkplatforms.co.za/np-connect/connectivity/ftth. This article was published in partnership with Network Platforms.