Remarkable is not simply excellent or great, remarkable is something worth talking about. In 7 years, Euphoria Telecom has earned the reputation of delivering remarkable customer experience to over 2000 business customers – by simply listening to its customers. In South Africa, businesses generally invest the bare minimum into understanding and delivering customer service that exceeds the status quo. Often customer experience is measured using checklists and monitored in isolation – without considering the multiple aspects that make up the entire customer experience. This may be the reason many local companies fail to understand what truly resonates with their customers, failing to create brand loyalty. After experiencing this from companies offering Euphoria B2B services, Euphoria realised the importance of building strong customer relationships through customer experiences. “By changing our approach, we began asking the right questions and listening to our customers, gaining insight into what really makes our customers happy” Learning from international companies was one of the ways Euphoria developed its customer experience standards. International companies do not operate on the South African status quo, delivering run-of-the-mill services. Instead, these organisations are known to interact and engage with their customers to find out what makes them happy. Euphoria approached customer experience from the customer’s perspective, by listening and understanding what customers wanted from the service, product and staff. “Our customers are the reason we are able to deliver such high levels of customer satisfaction. If our customers did not trust us enough to engage and communicate with us, we would be following the status quo.” For any technology business, it is easy to lose focus of the end user and place all the importance on the technology – forgetting that the main reason the business exists is to serve its customers. Engaging with customers about what makes them happy ensures that Euphoria does not lose sight of what it really means to deliver a remarkable customer experience. The result – Euphoria has built a product that encompasses a remarkable customer experience. Not only the technology, but the total package. The solution our customers use and interact with on a daily basis. It may seem obvious, but many organisations fail to make a differentiation between incredible technological leaps and delivering incredible user experience through technological leaps. The emphasis always remains on “what innovation we have created and implemented.” We have learned from communicating with our customers that this is useless information to them. Generally, customers are not interested in how you developed what you developed. They are interested in what this development can do for them. Euphoria’s customers have helped create the truly remarkable customer experience they want, by sharing what is valuable to them. With insights like these, Euphoria is able to predict what our customer’s growing requirements will be in future. Euphoria Telecom is specific about the people who represent the company. Customer facing or not, all Euphoria’s people are handpicked for their desire to meet high levels of customer satisfaction. Our people view the success of our customer’s businesses as our own success. After 7 years, delivering remarkable customer service and experience is still the cornerstone of Euphoria Telecom. We love listening to our customers and use this information to continue delivering the best experience we can. Download the Report here to find out more about Euphoria Telecom’s customer experience. This article was published in partnership with Euphoria Telecom.