NComputing has delivered more than 3 million low-cost thin clients worldwide, and now introduces RX300 for vSpace and RX-HDX for Citrix – its latest thin client additions to its RX-series.  The RX300 thin client is the latest generation thin client for NComputings vSpace Solution, and is built for productivity using the latest Raspberry Pi 3 platform. Designed and optimised specifically for NComputing’s award-winning vSpace Pro desktop virtualization solution, the RX300 is cloud-ready and provides a rich PC-like experience. Based on vSpace Pro 10, the virtual desktop provided is simple-to-deploy, centrally managed, and high-performing – making it the ideal solution for SMB and education markets. The RX300 comes equipped with both a ‘Thin Client Mode’ and ‘Raspbian Linux Mode.’ RX300 features are detailed in the list below: RX300 features full-screen, full-motion HD multimedia playback with vCAST direct streaming technology support, built-in transparent USB redirection achieving unparalleled peripheral support, WiFi, and optional access to Linux Raspbian OS managed by the IT admin. You can also use the RX300 as a locked down thin client with connections to vSpace Pro 10, or as a Raspberry Pi 3 device that allows direct access to: Raspbian Linux OS and its popular games (Minecraft), how-to-code applications (Scratch, Python, and Java), and productivity tools. The RX300 comes with a software connection license to vSpace Pro 10 desktop virtualization software and can be purchased with subscription based or perpetual licenses. RX300 also offers the lowest initial cost among NComputing’s thin client families.  Another addition to the RX-series is the RX-HDX thin client for Citrix, which is built based on the latest Raspberry Pi 3 with fully optimized Citrix HDX Ready integration for compelling performance. Designed for organisations looking to broaden their commitments to Citrix XenDesktop or XenApp, it delivers 100% of the HDX experience at a fraction of the cost of PCs or other thin clients. Thanks to integrated enterprise-grade Device Management Software, built-in Ethernet and WiFi and Bluetooth, the RX-HDX delivers a high-performance and purpose-built desktop virtualization solution for Citrix enterprise customers. A dual Monitor Adapter is also available, Citrix Real Time Optimization Package for the support of Skype for Business etc. will be available later this year. NComputing’s innovative and award-winning technology gives customers a quick time-to-value, impressively performing, and highly affordable desktop virtualization solution. To find out more, visit the NComputing website. This article was published in partnership with NComputing.