A great demand has been placed on the home network, with the increase of Wi-Fi enabled devices such as smart phones, tablets, smart fridges and home theatre amplifiers in the modern household. Despite the significant improvement in internet speeds and Wi-Fi over the last several years, many home networks cannot handle the number of devices demanding connectivity and bandwidth because of the limitations on many home Wi-Fi routers. Some households may also face challenges with triple-play services that demand both high-throughput, low latency and VoIP services. Not forgetting how the general setup, configuration and management of a home network can be complex, therefore we rely on an IT Specialist to sort out our home network problems. But if you are looking to save money, then you really should handle these matters yourself. Introducing Ubiquiti’s AmpliFi HD, this is not your average home router; it’s the ultimate Wi-Fi system. With turbocharged 802.11ac Wi-Fi, the AmpliFi HD router utilizes multiple self-configuring radios and advanced antenna technology to bring ubiquitous Wi-Fi coverage to meet the demands of the modern home. The router alone delivers maximum throughput for video streaming with lag-free performance and other intensive bandwidth applications. The true definition of taking matters into your own hands- AmpliFi’s app available on iOS and Android platforms directly links AmpliFi devices to your smartphone via Bluetooth Low Energy and with a simple intuitive setup; you can keep track of who’s on your network and how much they are using, monitor ISP speeds, invite guests, oversee the security of your network and if there’s a network problem, just figure it out on your app-no need to call in an IT Specialist. For the concerned parent, the AmpliFi app allows you to create a profile to group connected devices together on a schedule. Each schedule can be customized to control what time and day your children can have access to the network. For any queries or assistance, live chat support is available 24 hours, 7 days a week and if you want to call; Ubiquiti Networks technicians are available on weekdays from 9 am to 5 pm Mountain Time (MT). The cool app features a band steering toggle that directs users to the 5GHz band for higher performance, with an automatic redirect to the 2.4GHz band if the router falls out of range of the 5GHz. The router steering option tells the connected devices directly to the router instead of the mesh points Extend your coverage with AmpliFi’s mesh points that fit discreetly into any outlet for maximum Wi-Fi coverage throughout your home. By utilizing mesh point technology and high-performance antenna design for superior range and speed, the wireless super mesh points work together with the AmpliFi router base station to eliminate any dead spots in your house. You can add as many mesh points as you need. Over and above this, you can even connect the Mesh Points to any 3rd Party Access Point, meaning you do not have to use the AmpliFi router, but chances are that you’d still want it – I mean, just look at it! With its sleek, sophisticated industrial design, you definitely won’t have to hide this router behind a pot plant. In addition to a lit white ring that shines under the router, the AmpliFi HD router includes a smart 1.6 inch LCD touchscreen that shows the date and time, just tap the screen to see how much data has moved in and out of the router. Tap it again to see the WAN and the IP addresses and how many devices are connected. For more information about AmpliFi, you can visit their website. This article was published in partnership with Miro.