Video gaming is one of the world’s fastest growing industries and is worth over $21 billion. According to a report by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), the South African video games industry will grow its share of the market from R1.6 billion in 2010 to R3.6 billion by 2019. As a result, gaming events are in abundance and gamers and enthusiast alike are busy preparing for upcoming premier events such as rAge Expo. These events will do well to take note of the recently introduce the future of gaming. Through the unveiling of their new CHG90 and CHG70 curved monitors, which feature the powerful High Dynamic Range (HDR) picture enhancement technology typically reserved for televisions, Samsung has essentially redefined the game. When combined with the CHG90’s ultra-wide design and the CHG70’s quantum dot composition, this HDR integration produces a realistic, detailed picture that showcases games exactly as developers intended, and dramatically improves gameplay with crisper colours and sharper contrast. “Gamers want to feel completely immersed in their favourite games and our new monitors provide the most striking visuals and realistic content to deliver the ultimate gaming experience, whether in the comfort of your home or within a competitive space,” said Mike van Lier, Director: Consumer Electronics, Samsung South Africa. “These QLED gaming monitors are the gateway to the future of gaming and we’re looking forward to building upon these game-changing technologies to further meet the needs of gamers, developers and partners in the coming years.” The QLED quantum dot technology delivers a new metal core and supports approximately 125 percent of the sRGB colour spectrum and 95 percent of the Digital Cinema Initiatives (DCI-P3) motion picture standard, to deliver an exceptionally wide colour range. Samsung’s CHG90 sets the new visual standard for gaming displays by projecting a 32:9 aspect ratio and 3,840×1,080 double full HD (DFHD) resolution across a 49-inch screen. The CHG90 literally extends the playing field for gamers, with its broad design surpassing industry standards while simultaneously representing the widest monitor in the company’s gaming portfolio. The monitor delivers stunning 1,800R curvature and an ultra-wide 178-degree viewing angle, maintaining content visibility from any location within a given space. As a result, gamers no longer have to worry about the logistics, expenses and central bezel interference that occur when combining multiple smaller monitors together for an expanded view. The CHG90 literally extends the playing field for gamers, with its broad design surpassing industry standards while simultaneously representing the widest monitor in the company’s gaming portfolio. The monitor delivers stunning 1,800R curvature and an ultra-wide 178-degree viewing angle, maintaining content visibility from any location within a given space. As a result, gamers no longer have to worry about the logistics, expenses and central bezel interference that occur when combining multiple smaller monitors together for an expanded view. The monitor delivers stunning 1,800R curvature and an ultra-wide 178-degree viewing angle, maintaining content visibility from any location within a given space. As a result, gamers no longer have to worry about the logistics, expenses and central bezel interference that occur when combining multiple smaller monitors together for an expanded view. As a result, gamers no longer have to worry about the logistics, expenses and central bezel interference that occur when combining multiple smaller monitors together for an expanded view. Ideal for first-person shooting, racing, flight simulation and action-heavy games, the CHG90 aligns an accelerated refresh rate (144Hz) and 1ms motion picture response time (MPRT) with advanced, four-channel scanning technology to deter motion blur and produce a more consistent picture across the entire screen. The CHG90 and CHG70 arrive as the best Samsung gaming monitors to feature AMD’s Radeon FreeSync™ technology. Radeon FreeSync™ supports a wide colour gamut to showcase HDR content with twice the perceivable brightness and colour than that offered by the sRGB standard. As a result, users can enjoy a smooth, low-latency plug-and-play HDR gaming experience without having to frequently readjust software or monitor settings. As a result, users can enjoy a smooth, low-latency plug-and-play HDR gaming experience without having to frequently readjust software or monitor settings. “As Samsung South Africa, we are encouraged that the gaming industry in South Africa has slowly grown into a major contender and reached a tipping point with enough supporting infrastructure‚ sponsors and tournaments to create full-time gamers. The HDR QLED Gaming Monitors are but another ‘World First’ by us in a quest for innovating technologies, products and designs that enrich people’s lives.” This article was published in partnership with Samsung.